
From:	MX%"messler@gate.net" 28-JUN-1994 00:38:37.54
To:	MX%"cms@dragon.com"
CC:	
Subj:	

Return-Path: <messler@gate.net>
Received: from inca.gate.net by DRAGON.COM (MX V4.1 VAX) with SMTP; Tue, 28 Jun
          1994 00:35:42 EDT
Received: (from messler@localhost) by inca.gate.net (8.6.9/8.6.9) id AAA72470
          for cms@dragon.com; Tue, 28 Jun 1994 00:32:04 -0400
Date: Tue, 28 Jun 1994 00:32:04 -0400
From: Art Messler <messler@gate.net>
Message-ID: <199406280432.AAA72470@inca.gate.net>
To: cms@dragon.com

--------------------------------------------------------------
------
Thesaurus Precum Latinarum Ad maiorem Dei gloriam
--------------------------------------------------------------
------

This  file  contains a collection of Latin prayers taken  from
the  Latin Rite of the Catholic Church. Originally I  compiled
these  for  my own study, use and devotions, but  others  have
shown  an interest in these prayers and have asked for  copies
of  this prayer or that prayer from my collection from time to
time.  As  a  result, I have gone through  my  collection  and
assembled  a  text file of Latin prayers that  can  be  shared
amongst those who have a soft spot in their hearts for them.

My  motivations in compiling my collection are many,  but  the
main  one is I felt (and still feel) that much of the Church's
spiritual treasures have been neglected this later half of the
20th century. This, I think, is a mistake, for just  as it  is
important  to understand the historical nature and development
of our doctrines and theology and how they rest upon apostolic
authority,  I  feel  it  is  as  important  to  have  a  broad
perspective  concerning prayer and liturgy in the  Church  for
the last 2,000 years.

My   collection   is  an  attempt  at  this.  By   cataloging,
identifying, and tracing the history of prayers  used  in  the
Church,  hopefully a sense of the timelessness of the Church's
prayer  life  and liturgy will be developed.  I  have  enjoyed
collecting  these prayers and have derived  a  great  deal  of
spiritual  benefits  meditating upon the words  they  contain.
Hopefully others will too.

As  an  footnote  I  want  to comment  about  the  mention  of
indulgences in these texts. The sole purpose of my  collection
is to collect and maintain Latin prayers/liturgy etc. and with
each  piece  I  include a translation. One criterion  for  the
translation  is  that it must be 'close'  (admittedly  a  very
subjective  term)  to the Latin. This is done  to  maintain  a
strong   relationship  between  the  Latin  and  the  English,
especially for those who are interested in these prayers,  but
can  only  follow the Latin partially or not at all. This  way
those who have an interest in the Latin, but lack fluency, can
appreciate these prayers to the fullest.

To  the above end, I am NOT (in general) using the latest ICEL
versions from the recent Enchridion of Indulgences. While many
of  ICEL's translations are quite pretty in the English,  they
are  much  to  far from the Latin originals in most  cases  to
qualify  as  'close' translations. Instead, I am  using  older
translations  that are much closer to the Latin  and  in  some
cases my own.

I  mention  this  since  I cannot say  for  sure  whether  the
indulgence applies to these English versions. Thus, the notice
of   an   indulgence  attached  to  a  prayer  below  is   for
informational purposes only. If you wish to make  use  of  the
attached indulgences, I suggest you get hold of versions  with
explicit approval.

Please  feel  free  to enjoy this file and pass  it  along  to
anyone who might be interested. All I ask is that my name  and
e-mail address be attached so that if anyone spots an error or
has  a favorite Latin prayer they might care to share with me,
they can find me on InterNet.

Enjoy!


Michael Martin
aardvark@ial4.jsc.nasa.gov

--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Contents
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Basics
Creeds
Triune God
God the Father
God the Son
    The Cross
    The Sacred Heart
    The Precious Blood
    Holy Name
God the Holy Spirit
Confession
Prayers Before and After Mass
Eucharistic Adoration
Daily Prayer Cycle
    Morning Prayer
    Mid-Day Prayer
    Evening Prayer
    Compline
The Blessed Virgin Mary
The Angels
Saint Joseph
The Holy Family
The Saints
Various Occasions
    For Meetings
    Thanksgiving
    For Grace
    For Guidance
    Before and After Meals
    For the Dead
Biographies of Some of the Authors
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Basics
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                         ----Signum Crucis----
                         ----Sign of the Cross----

The familiar and time honored Sign of the Cross can be traced
back in one for or another to the first century. A partial
indulgence is granted to the faithful who make the Sign of the
Cross.

In nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti. Amen
                         ---------------------

In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Spirit. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Doxologia Minor----
                         ----Glory Be----

A short expression of praise to the Trinity from the very
early Church. The first part appears to be from a baptismal
formula and the second part was added as an anti-Arian
statement. It is used extensively in the Divine Office and
also many other devotions such as the Rosary.

Gloria Patri, et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto. Sicut erat in
principio, et nunc, et semper, et in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Spirit. As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be
forever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Oratio Dominica----
                         ----Lord's Prayer----

The words our Lord Jesus Christ Himself gave to the apostles
when they asked Him to teach them to pray. The prayer is
recorded in Mt 6:9-13. The Didache (1st/2nd century catechism)
commends the prayer to be recited by the faithful three times
during the day, The prayer became an official part of the Mass
in the latter part of the 4th century. Originally is was
recited after the breaking of the bread, but Pope Gregory the
Great, influenced by St. Augustine, moved it to just before
the breaking of the bread where it has been ever since. The
Didache's tradition of reciting the prayer thrice daily
continues in the Church today with the Lord's prayer being
recited at Mass and then twice more during the Liturgy of the
Hours at Lauds and Vespers.

Pater noster, qui es in caelis, sanctificetur nomen tuum.
Adveniat regnum tuum. Fiat voluntas tua, sicut in caelo et in
terra. Panem nostrum quotidianum da nobis hodie, et dimitte
nobis debita nostra sicut et nos dimittimus debitoribus
nostris. Et ne nos inducas in tentationem, sed libera nos a
malo. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. Thy
kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not
into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----

----Confiteor----
                         ----I Confess----

A 'Confiteor' is a penitential prayer where we acknowledge our
sinfulness and seek forgiveness. As a prayer form it has been
with us in one form or another from nearly the beginning of
Christianity. The one below was composed in the 8th century
and added to the Mass in the 11th Century.

Confiteor Deo omnipotenti, beatae Mariae semper Virgini, beato
Michaeli Archangelo, beato Ioanni Baptistae, sanctis Apostolis
Petro et Paulo, omnibus Sanctis, et vobis, fratres (et tibi
pater), quia peccavi nimis cogitatione, verbo et opere: mea
culpa, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa. Ideo precor beatam Mariam
semper Virginem, beatum Michaelem Archangelum, beatum Ioannem
Baptistam, sanctos Apostolos Petrum et Paulum, omnes Sanctos,
et vos, fratres (et te, pater), orare pro me ad Dominum, Deum
nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

I confess to almighty God, to blessed Mary ever Virgin, to
blessed Michael the archangel, to blessed John the Baptist, to
the holy apostles Peter and Paul, to all the saints, and to
you my brothers and sisters (and to you, father) that I have
sinned exceedingly in thought, word, and deed, through my
fault, through my fault, through my most grievous fault.
Therefore, I beseech blessed Mary ever Virgin, blessed Michael
the archangel, blessed John the Baptist, the holy apostles
Peter and Paul, and all the saints, to pray for me to the Lord
our God. Amen.

The current post Vatican II Confiteor is a revision of the
previous one.

Confiteor Deo omnipotenti, et vobis, fratres, quia peccavi
nimis cogitatione, verbo et opere et omissione: mea culpa, mea
culpa, mea maxima culpa. Ideo precor beatam Mariam semper
Virginem,  omnes Angelos et Sanctos, et vos, fratres, orare
pro me ad Dominum, Deum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

I confess to almighty God, and to you my brothers and sisters,
that I have sinned through my own fault in my thoughts and in
my words, in what I have done, and in what I have failed to
do; and I ask blessed Mary, ever Virgin,  and all the angels
and saints, and you, my brothers and sisters, to pray for me
to the Lord our God. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Actus Fidei----
                         ----Act of Faith----

This is the traditional prayer to make an Act of Faith. A
partial indulgence is attached to any legitimate formula of an
Act of Faith.

Domine Deus, firma fide credo et confiteor omnia et singula
quae sancta ecclesia Catholica proponit, quia tu, Deus, ea
omnia revelasti, qui es aeterna veritas et sapientia quae nec
fallere nec falli potest. In hac fide vivere et mori statuo.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

O my God, I firmly believe that Thou art one God in three
divine persons, Father, Son and Holy Spirit; I believe that
Thy divine Son became man and died for our sins, and that He
shall come to judge the living and the dead. I believe these
and all the truths which the holy Catholic Church teaches,
because Thou hast revealed them, Who canst neither deceive nor
be deceived. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Actus Spei----
                         ----Act of Hope----

This is the traditional prayer for an Act of Hope. A partial
indulgence is attached to any legitimate formula for an Act of
Hope.

Domine Deus, spero per gratiam tuam remissionem omnium
peccatorum, et post hanc vitam aeternam felicitatem me esse
consecuturum: quia tu promisisti, qui es infinite potens,
fidelis, benignus, et misericors. In hac spe vivere et mori
statuo. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O my God, relying on Thy almighty power and infinite mercy and
promises, I hope to obtain pardon for my sins, the help of Thy
grace, and life everlasting, through the merits of Jesus
Christ, my Lord and Redeemer. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Actus Caritatis----
                         ----Act of Love----

This is the traditional prayer for an Act of Love. A partial
indulgence is attached to any legitimate form of an Act of
Love.

Domine Deus, amo te super omnia proximum meum propter te, quia
tu es summum, infinitum, et perfectissimum bonum, omni
dilectione dignum. In hac caritate vivere et mori statuo.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

O my God, I love Thee above all things, with my whole heart
and soul, because Thou art all-good and worthy of all love. I
love my neighbor as myself for the love of Thee. I forgive all
who have injured me, and ask pardon of all whom I have
injured. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Ave Maria----
                         ----Hail Mary----

One of the most popular Marian prayers, the Ave Maria, or
Angelic Salutation, originates from the Gospel of St. Luke.
The first half of the prayer is from the Gospel and was used
in the early centuries as an Offertory prayer and during the
Divine Office. The second part (Holy Mary..) dates back to the
Carthusian Breviary of the Middle Ages.

Ave Maria, gratia plena, Dominus tecum. Benedicta tu in
mulieribus, et benedictus fructus ventris tui, Iesus. Sancta
Maria, Mater Dei, ora pro nobis peccatoribus, nunc, et in hora
mortis nostrae. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art
thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now, and
in the hour of our death. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Creeds
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                         ----Symbolum Apostolorum----
                         ----Apostles' Creed----

The Symbolum Apostolorum, or Apostles' Creed, can trace its
ancestry to the time of the Apostles by virtue of its presence
in various forms in early Church writings. Originally this
Creed was a Baptismal Creed summarizing the teachings of the
Apostles and was given to the Catechumens when they were
baptized. Instead of the continuous prayer as we have it
today, each line was rather in the form of a question to which
the catechumen gave assent indicating he both understood and
believed. This is similar to the renewal of the Baptismal
promises that occurs in the Easter Liturgy today. Eventually
this question and answer style was modified into the prayer
form as we have it today. A partial indulgence is granted to
the faithful who recite the Symbolum Apostolorum.

Credo in Deum Patrem omnipotentem, Creatorem caeli et terrae.
Et in Iesum Christum, Filium eius unicum, Dominum nostrum, qui
conceptus est de Spiritu Sancto, natus ex Maria Virgine,
passus sub Pontio Pilato, crucifixus, mortuus, et sepultus,
descendit ad infernos, tertia die resurrexit a mortuis,
ascendit ad caelos, sedet ad dexteram Dei Patris omnipotentis,
inde venturus est iudicare vivos et mortuos. Credo in Spiritum
Sanctum, sanctam Ecclesiam catholicam, sanctorum communionem,
remissionem peccatorum, carnis resurrectionem et vitam
aeternam. Amen.
                         ---------------------

I believe in God, the Father almighty, creator of heaven and
earth. I believe in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord. He
was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit and born of the
Virgin Mary. He suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified,
died, and was buried. He descended to the dead. On the third
day He rose again. He ascended into heaven and is seated at
the right hand of the Father. He will come again to judge the
living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy
catholic Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of
sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Quicumque----
                         ----Athanasian Creed----

The Athanasian Creed , also know as the "Quicumque vult", was
formerly recited at the office of Prime on Sundays. It is one
of the four authoritative Creeds of the Catholic Church. The
Anglican Church and some Protestant Churches also hold it to
be authoritative.  While the Creed has always been attributed
to St. Athanasius (d 373 AD), it was unknown in the Eastern
Churches until the 12th century and thus it is unlikely he is
the author. St. Ambrose is one suggested author, but many
authors have been proposed with no conclusive agreements
reached. Current theory suggests it was composed in southern
France in the 5th century.  In 1940, the lost 'Excerpta' of
St. Vincent of Lerins (flourished in 440: "quod ubique, quod
semper, quod ab omnibus creditum est") was discovered, and
this work contains much of the language of the Creed. Thus,
either St. Vincent, or an admirer have also been suggested as
author. The earliest known copy of the creed was included in a
prefix to a collection of homilies by Caesarius of Arles (died
542).

Quicumque vult salvus esse, ante omnia opus est, ut teneat
catholicam fidem:

Quam nisi quisque integram inviolatamque servaverit, absque
dubio in aeternam peribit.

Fides autem catholica haec est: ut unum Deum in Trinitate, et
Trinitatem in unitate veneremur.

Neque confundentes personas, neque substantiam seperantes.

Alia est enim persona Patris alia Filii, alia Spiritus Sancti:

Sed Patris, et Fili, et Spiritus Sancti una est divinitas,
aequalis gloria, coeterna maiestas.

Qualis Pater, talis Filius, talis Spiritus Sanctus. Increatus
Pater, increatus Filius, increatus Spiritus Sanctus.

Immensus Pater, immensus Filius, immensus Spiritus Sanctus.

Aeternus Pater, aeternus Filius, aeternus Spiritus Sanctus.

Et tamen non tres aeterni, sed unus aeternus.

Sicut non tres increati, nec tres immensi, sed unus increatus,
et unus immensus.

Similiter omnipotens Pater, omnipotens Filius, omnipotens
Spiritus Sanctus.

Et tamen non tres omnipotentes, sed unus omnipotens.

Ita Deus Pater, Deus Filius, Deus Spiritus Sanctus.

Et tamen non tres dii, sed unus est Deus.

Ita Dominus Pater, Dominus Filius, Dominus Spiritus Sanctus.

Et tamen non tres Domini, sed unus est Dominus.

Quia, sicut singillatim unamquamque personam Deum ac Dominum
confiteri christiana veritate compelimur: ita tres Deos aut
Dominos dicere catholica religione prohibemur.

Pater a nullo est factus: nec creatus, nec genitus.

Filius a Patre solo est: non factus, nec creatus, sed genitus.

Spiritus Sanctus a Patre et Filio: non factus, nec creatus,
nec genitus, sed procedens.

Unus ergo Pater, non tres Patres: unus Filius, non tres Filii:
unus Spiritus Sanctus, non tres Spiritus Sancti.

Et in hac Trinitate nihil prius aut posterius, nihil maius aut
minus: sed totae tres personae coaeternae sibi sunt et
coaequales.

Ita ut per omnia, sicut iam supra dictum est, et unitas in
Trinitate, et Trinitas in unitate veneranda sit.

Qui vult ergo salvus esse, ita de Trinitate sentiat.

Sed necessarium est ad aeternam salutem, ut incarnationem
quoque Domini nostri Iesu Christi fideliter credat.

Est ergo fides recta ut credamus et confiteamur, quia Dominus
noster Iesus Christus, Dei Filius, Deus et homo est.

Deus est ex substantia Patris ante saecula genitus: et homo
est ex substantia matris in saeculo natus.

Perfectus Deus, perfectus homo: ex anima rationali et humana
carne subsistens.

Aequalis Patri secundum divinitatem: minor Patre secundum
humanitatem.

Qui licet Deus sit et homo, non duo tamen, sed unus est
Christus.

Unus autem non conversione divinitatis in carnem, sed
assumptione humanitatis in Deum.

Unus omnino, non confusione substantiae, sed unitate personae.

Nam sicut anima rationalis et caro unus est homo: ita Deus et
homo unus est Christus.

Qui passus est pro salute nostra: descendit ad inferos: tertia
die resurrexit a mortuis.

Ascendit ad caelos, sedet ad dexteram Dei Patris omnipotentis:
inde venturus est iudicare vivos et mortuos.

Ad cuius adventum omnes homines resurgere habent cum
corporibus suis: et reddituri sunt de factis propriis
rationem.

Et qui bona egerunt, ibunt in vitam aeternam: qui vero mala,
in ignem aeternum.

Haec est fides catholica, quam nisi quisque fideliter
firmiterque crediderit, salvus esse non poterit.  Amen.
                         ---------------------

Whoever wishes to be saved must, above all, keep the Catholic
faith.

For unless a person keeps this faith whole and entire he will
undoubtedly be lost forever.

This is what the catholic faith teaches: we worship one God in
the Trinity and the Trinity in unity.

We distinguish among the persons, but we do not divide the
substance.

For the Father is a distinct person; the Son is a distinct
person; and the Holy Spirit is a distinct person.

Still the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit have one
divinity, equal glory, and coeternal majesty.

What the Father is, the Son is, and the Holy Spirit is.

The Father is uncreated, the Son is uncreated, and the Holy
Spirit is uncreated.

The Father is boundless, the Son is boundless, and the Holy
Spirit is boundless.

The Father is eternal, the Son is eternal, and the Holy Spirit
is eternal.

Nevertheless, there are not three eternal beings, but one
eternal being.

Thus there are not three uncreated beings, nor three boundless
beings, but one uncreated being and one boundless being.

Likewise, the Father is omnipotent, the Son is omnipotent, and
the Holy Spirit is omnipotent.

Yet there are not three omnipotent beings, but one omnipotent
being.

Thus the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is
God.

But there are not three gods, but one God.

The Father is Lord, the Son is Lord, and the Holy Spirit is
Lord.

There as not three lords, but one Lord.

For according to Christian truth, we must profess that each of
the persons individually is God; and according to Christian
religion we are forbidden to say that there are three gods or
lords.

The Father is not made by anyone, nor created by anyone, nor
generated by anyone.

The Son is not made nor created, but he is generated by the
Father alone.

The Holy Spirit is not made nor created nor generated, but
proceeds from the Father and the Son.

There is, then, one Father, not three Fathers; one Son, but
not three sons; one Holy Spirit, not three holy spirits.

In this Trinity, there is nothing greater, nothing less than
anything else. But the entire three persons are coeternal and
coequal with one another.

So that, as we have said, we worship complete unity in the
Trinity and the Trinity in unity.

This, then, is what he who wishes to be saved must believe
about the Trinity.

It is also necessary for eternal salvation that he believes
steadfastly in the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ.

The true faith is: we believe and profess that our Lord Jesus
Christ, the Son of God, is both God and man.

As God He was begotten of the substance of the Father before
time; as man He was born in time of the substance of His
Mother.

He is perfect God; and He is perfect man, with a rational soul
and human flesh.

He is equal to the Father in His divinity, but He is inferior
to the Father in His humanity.

Although He is God and man, He is not two, but one Christ.

And He is one, not because His divinity was changed into
flesh, but because His humanity was assumed to God.

He is one, not at all because of a mingling of substances, but
because He is one person.

As a rational soul and flesh are one man: so God and man are
one Christ.

He died for our salvation, descended to hell, arose from the
dead on the third day.

Ascended into heaven, sits at the right hand of God the Father
almighty, and from there He shall come to judge the living and
the dead.

At His coming, all men are to arise with their own bodies; and
they are to give an account of their lives.

Those who have done good deeds will go into eternal life;
those who have done evil will go into everlasting fire.

This is the Catholic faith. Everyone must believe it, firmly
and steadfastly; otherwise He cannot be saved. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Symbolum Nicaenum----
                         ----Nicean Creed----

The Symbolum Nicaenum, or Nicene Creed, is a fusion of the
creeds drawn up at the Council of Nicea (325) and the Council
of Constantinople (381). It was at these councils that the
true nature of Jesus was defended against two heresies that
had sprung up. The Arains denied Christ's divinity and the
Monophysites denied Christ's humanity. The councils, drawing
upon the traditions handed down to them from the Apostles,
condemned both heresies and declared that Jesus was indeed
both true God and true man. In the 11th century this creed
became part of the Mass. A partial indulgence is granted to
the faithful who recite the Symbolum Nicaenum.

Credo in unum Deum, Patrem omnipotentem, factorem caeli et
terrae, visibilium omnium et invisibilium.

Et in unum Dominum Iesum Christum, Filium Dei unigenitum, et
ex Patre natum ante omnia saecula.

Deum de Deo, Lumen de Lumine, Deum verum de Deo vero, genitum
non factum, consubstantialem Patri; per quem omnia facta sunt.

Qui propter nos homines et propter nostram salutem descendit
de caelis.

Et incarnatus est de Spiritu Sancto ex Maria Virgine, et homo
factus est.

Crucifixus etiam pro nobis sub Pontio Pilato, passus et
sepultus est, et resurrexit tertia die, secundum Scripturas,
et ascendit in caelum, sedet ad dexteram Patris.

Et iterum venturus est cum gloria, iudicare vivos et mortuos,
cuius regni non erit finis.

Et in Spiritum Sanctum, Dominum et vivificantem, qui ex Patre
Filioque procedit.

Qui cum Patre et Filio simul adoratur et conglorificatur: qui
locutus est per prophetas.

Et unam, sanctam, catholicam et apostolicam Ecclesiam.

Confiteor unum baptisma in remissionem peccatorum.

Et expecto resurrectionem mortuorum, et vitam venturi saeculi.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

I believe in God, the Father almighty, creator of heaven and
earth, and of all things visible and invisible.

I believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of
God, eternally begotten of the Father.

God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God,
begotten, not made, one in being with the Father. Through Him
all things were made.

For us men and for our salvation He came down from heaven.

By the power of the Holy Spirit, He was born of the Virgin
Mary, and became man.

For our sake He was crucified under Pontius Pilate; He
suffered, died, and was buried. On the third day He rose again
in fulfillment of the Scriptures; He ascended into heaven and
is seated at the right hand of the Father.

He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead,
and His kingdom will have no end.

I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of Life, who
proceeds from the Father and the Son.

With the Father and the Son he is worshipped and glorified. He
has spoken through the Prophets.

I believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church.

I acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.

I look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the
world to come.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Triune God
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                         ----Angelic Trisagion----

This hymn of devotion to the Blessed Trinity is the official
prayer of the Order of the Blessed Trinity, otherwise known as
the Trinitarians. This devotion has been recited by them and
their affiliates for centuries in praise of the Trinity

In nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti. Amen.

V. Domine, labia mea aperies.

R. Et os meum annuntiabit laudem tuam.

V. Deus in adiutorium meum intende.

R. Domine, ad adiuvandum me festina.

V. Gloria Patri et Filio et Spiritui Sancto,

R. Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et semper, et in saecula
saeculorum. Amen.

---The decade below is recited three times. Once for each
member of the Trinity.

All: Sanctus Deus, Sanctus fortis, Sanctus immortalis,
miserere nobis.

V. Pater noster, qui es in caelis, sanctificetur nomen tuum.
Adveniat regnum tuum. Fiat voluntas tua, sicut in caelo et in
terra. Panem nostrum quotidianum da nobis hodie, et dimitte
nobis debita nostra sicut et nos dimittimus debitoribus
nostris. Et ne nos inducas in tentationem, sed libera nos a
malo. Amen.

---The following part of the decade is repeated nine times---

V. Tibi laus, Tibi gloria, Tibi gratiarum actio in saecula
sempiterna, O Beata Trinitas.

R. Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus Dominus Deus exercituum. Pleni
sunt coeli et terra gloria tua.

V. Gloria Patri et Filio et Spiritui Sancto,

R. Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et semper, et in saecula
saeculorum. Amen.
----End of Decade----

Antiphon

Te Deum Patrem ingenitum, te Filium unigenitum, te Spiritum
Sanctum Paraclitum, sanctam et individuam Trinitatem, toto
corde et ore confitemur, laudamus, atque benedicimus: Tibi
gloria in saecula.

V. Benedicimus Patrem, et Filium cum Sancto Spiritu.

R. Laudemus et superexaltemus eum in saecula.

Oremus.

Omnipotens sempiterne Deus, qui dedisti famulis tuis in
confessione verae fidei, aeternae Trinitatis gloriam
agnoscere, et in potentia maiestatis adorare Unitatem:
quaesumus, ut eiusdem fidei firmitate, ab omnibus semper
muniamur adversis. Per Christum Dominum nostrum.

All: Amen.

All: Libera nos, salva nos, vivifica nos, O Beata Trinitas!
                         ---------------------

In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Spirit. Amen.

V. Lord, open my lips.

R. And my mouth shall declare Thy praise.

V. O God, come to my assistance.

R. O Lord, make haste to help me.

V. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Spirit,

R. As it was in the beginning, is now and will be forever.
Amen.

---The decade below is recited three times. Once for each
member of the Trinity.

All: Holy God! Holy Strong One! Holy Immortal One, have mercy
upon us.

V. Our Father, Who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. Thy
kingdom come. Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not
into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen.

---The following part of the decade is repeated nine times---

V. To Thee, O Blessed Trinity, be praise, and honor, and
thanksgiving, for ever and ever!

R. Holy, holy, holy Lord, God of hosts. Heaven and earth are
filled with Thy glory.

V. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Spirit,

R. As it was in the beginning, is now and will be forever.
Amen.
----End of Decade----

Antiphon

God the Father unbegotten, only-begotten Son, and Holy Spirit,
the Comforter; holy and undivided Trinity, with all our hearts
we acknowledge you: Glory to Thee forever.

V. Let us bless the Father, and the Son with the Holy Spirit.

R. Be praised and exalted above all things forever.

Let us pray,

Almighty, ever-living God, who has permitted us Thy servants,
in our profession of the true faith, to acknowledge the glory
of the eternal Trinity, and in the power of that majesty to
adore the Unity, grant, that by steadfastness in this same
faith, we may be ever guarded against all adversity: through
Christ our Lord.

All: Amen

All: Set us free, save us, vivify us, O Blessed Trinity!
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Benedicite Dominum----
                         ----Canticle of the Three Young Men--
--

Benedicite Dominum, or the Canticle of the Three Young Men is
taken from the Old Testament book of Daniel (Dan. 3, 57-88;
56). It is used at Lauds in the Liturgy of the Hours.

Benedicite, omnia opera Domini, Domino; laudate et
superexaltate eum in saecula.

Benedicite, caeli, Domino, benedicite, angeli Domini, Domino.

Benedicite, aquae omnes, quae super caelos sunt, Domino,
benedicat omnis virtutis Domino. Benedicite, sol et luna,
Domino, benedicite, stellae caeli, Domino.

Benedicite, omnis imber et ros, Domino, benedicite, omnes
venti, Domino.

Benedicite, ignis et aestus, Domino, benedicite, frigus et
aestus, Domino.

Benedicite, rores et pruina, Domino, benedicite, gelu et
frigus, Domino.

Benedicite, glacies et nives, Domino, benedicite, noctes et
dies, Domino.

Benedicite, lux et tenebrae, Domino, benedicite, fulgura et
nubes, Domino.

Benedicat terra Dominum: laudet et superexaltet eum in
saecula.

Benedicite, montes et colles, Domino, benedicite, universa
germinantia in terra, Domino.

Benedicite, maria et flumina, Domino, benedicite, fontes,
Domino.

Benedicite, cete, et omnia, quae moventur in aquis, Domino,
benedicite, omnes volucres caeli, Domino. Benedicite, omnes
bestiae et pecora, Domino, benedicite, filii hominum, Domino.

Benedicite, Israel, Domino, laudate et superexaltate eum in
saecula.

Benedicite, sacerdotes Domini, Domino, benedicite, servi
Domini, Domino.

Benedicite, spiritus et animae iustorum, Domino, benedicite,
sancti et humiles corde, Domino. Benedicite, Anania, Azaria,
Misael, Domino, laudate et superexaltate eum in saecula.

Benedicamus Patrem et Filium cum Sancto Spiritu; laudemus et
superexaltemus eum in saecula.

Benedictus es in firmamento caeli et laudabilis et gloriosus
in saecula. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Bless the Lord, all you works of the Lord, praise and exalt
him above all forever.

Heavens, bless the Lord; angels of the Lord, bless the Lord.

All you waters that are above the heavens, bless the Lord; let
all powers bless the Lord.

Sun and moon, bless the Lord; stars of heaven, bless the Lord.

Every shower and dew, bless the Lord. All you winds, bless the
Lord.

Fire and heat, bless the Lord; cold and chill, bless the Lord.

Dews and hoar frosts, bless the Lord; frost and cold, bless
the Lord.

Ice and snow, bless the Lord; nights and days, bless the Lord.

Light and darkness, bless the Lord; lightnings and clouds,
bless the Lord.

Let the earth bless the Lord; let it praise and exalt him
above all forever.

Mountains and hills, bless the Lord; everything growing from
the earth, bless the Lord.

Seas and rivers, bless the Lord; fountains, bless the Lord.

Whales and all that move in the waters, bless the Lord; all
you fowls of the air, bless the Lord. All you beasts and
cattle, bless the Lord; sons of men, bless the Lord.

Israel, bless the Lord; praise and exalt him above all for
ever.

Priests of the Lord, bless the Lord; servants of the Lord,
bless the Lord.

Spirits and souls of the just, bless the Lord; holy men of
humble heart, bless the Lord.

Ananias, Azaria, and Misael, bless the Lord; praise and exalt
him above all for ever.

Let us bless the Father and the Son, with the Holy Spirit; let
us praise and exalt him above all for ever. Blessed art Thou,
Lord, in the firmament of heaven; and worthy of praise, and
glorious above all for ever. Amen
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Gloria----
                         ----Glory to God----

The Gloria is an ancient hymn from the second century praising
the Trinity. It has been part of the Mass since the 5th
century.

Gloria in excelsis Deo et in terra pax hominibus bonae
voluntatis. Laudamus te, benedicimus te, adoramus te,
glorificamus te, gratias agimus tibi propter magnam gloriam
tuam, Domine Deus, Rex caelistis, Deus Pater omnipotens.
Domine Fili unigenite, Iesu Christe, Domine Deus, Agnus Dei,
Filius Patris, qui tollis peccata mundi, miserere nobis; qui
tollis peccata mundi, suscipe deprecationem nostram. Qui sedes
ad dexteram Patris, miserere nobis. Quoniam tu solus Sanctus,
tu solus Dominus, tu solus Altissimus, Iesu Christe, cum
Sancto Spiritu in gloria Dei Patris. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Glory to God in the highest, and peace to His people on earth.
Lord, God, heavenly King, almighty God and Father, we worship
You, we give You thanks, we praise You for Your glory. Lord
Jesus Christ, only Son of the Father, Lord God, Lamb of God,
You take away the sins of the world: have mercy on us;  You
are seated at the right hand of the Father: receive our
prayer. For You alone are the Holy One, You alone are the
Lord, You alone are the Most High, Jesus Christ, with the Holy
Spirit, in the glory of God the Father. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                  ----Omnipotens sempiterne Deus----
                  ----Almighty and everlasting God----

This prayer was formerly recited during the Mass on Trinity
Sunday

Omnipotens sempiterne Deus, qui dedisti famulis tuis in
confessione verae fidei, aeternae Trinitatis gloriam
agnoscere, et in potentia maiestatis adorare Unitatem:
quaesumus, ut eiusdem fidei firmitate ab omnibus semper
muniamur adversis. Per Christum Dominum nostrum.
                         ---------------------

Almighty and everlasting God, who hast given unto us Thy
servants grace by the profession of the true faith, to
acknowledge the glory of the eternal Trinity, and, in the
power of Thy divine Majesty, to worship the Unity; we beseech
Thee, that by our steadfastness in this same faith, we may
evermore be defended from all adversities. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                  ----Pietate tua----
                  ----Of Thy Tender Mercy----

Pietate tua, quaesumus, Domine, nostrorum solve vincula
peccatorum, et intercedente beata semperque Virgine Dei
Genitrice Maria cum beato Ioseph ac beatis Apostolis tuis
Petro et Paulo et omnibus Sanctis, nos famulos tuos et loca
nostra in omni sanctitate custodi; omnes consangiunitate,
affinitate ac familiaritate nobis coniunctos a vitiis purga,
virtutibus illusta; pacem et salutem nobis tribue; hostes
visibiles et invisibiles remove; carnalia desideria repelle:
aerem salubrem indulge; amicis et inimicis nostris caritatem
largire; Urbem tuam custodi; Pontificem nostrum N. conserva;
omnes Praelatos, Principes cunctumque populum christianum ab
omni adversitate defende. Benedictio tua sit super nos semper,
et omnibus fidelibus defunctis requiem aeternam concede. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Of Thy tender mercy, we beseech Thee, O Lord, loose the bonds
of our sins, and through the intercession of Mary, the blessed
and ever-Virgin Mother of God, together with that of Saint
Joseph and Thy blessed Apostles Peter and Paul, and of all Thy
Saints, keep us Thy servants and our dwelling places in all
holiness; cleanse from sin and endue with virtue all those who
are joined to us by kindred, affinity and friendship; grant
unto us peace and safety; remove far from us our enemies, both
visible and invisible; repress all our carnal desires; grant
us wholesome air; bestow Thy charity upon our friends and
enemies; guard Thy city; preserve our Pontiff N.; defend all
prelates and princes and Thine entire Christian people from
every adversity. Let Thy blessing be evermore upon us, and do
Thou grant unto all the faithful departed rest everlasting.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Sanctus----

The Sanctus has been a part of the Mass from the first century
AD and its Jewish roots go back even farther. The first part
of the chant is based upon Isaiah 6:3 and Daniel 7:10. The
second part is based on Mt 21:9. The chant unites our voices
with those of the saints and angels in heaven into one song of
praise of God.

Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus, Dominus Deus Sabaoth. Pleni sunt
caeli et terra gloria tua. Hosanna in excelsis. Benedictus qui
venit in nomine Domini. Hosanna in excelsis.
                         ---------------------

Holy, holy, holy Lord, God of power and might, heaven and
earth are full of Thy glory. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed
is He who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the
highest.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Te Deum----

Te Deum, also sometimes called the Abrosian Hymn because if
its association with St. Ambrose, is a traditional hymn of joy
and thanksgiving. First attributed to Sts. Ambrose, Augustine,
or Hilary, it is now accredited to Nicetas, Bishop of
Remesiana (4th century). It is used at the conclusion of
Matins on Sunday outside Lent, daily during the Octaves of
Christmas and Easter, and on Solemnities and Feast Days. The
petitions at the end were added at a later time and are
optional. A partial indulgence is granted to the faithful who
recite it in thanksgiving and a plenary indulgence is granted
if the hymn is recited publicly on the last day of the year.

Te Deum laudamus: te Dominum confitemur.

Te aeternum Patrem omnis terra veneratur.

Tibi omnes Angeli; tibi caeli et universae Potestates;

Tibi Cherubim et Seraphim incessabili voce proclamant:

Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus, Dominus Deus Sabaoth.

Pleni sunt caeli et terra maiestatis gloriae tuae.

Te gloriosus Apostolorum chorus,

Te Prophetarum laudabilis numerus,

Te Martyrum candidatus laudat exercitus.

Te per orbem terrarum sancta confitetur Ecclesia,

Patrem immensae maiestatis:

Venerandum tuum verum et unicum Filium;

Sanctum quoque Paraclitum Spiritum.

Tu Rex gloriae, Christe.

Tu Patris sempiternus es Filius.

Tu ad liberandum suscepturus hominem, non horruisti Virginis
uterum.

Tu, devicto mortis aculeo, aperuisti credentibus regna
caelorum.

Tu ad dexteram Dei sedes, in gloria Patris.

Iudex crederis esse venturus.

Te ergo quaesumus, tuis famulis subveni: quos pretioso
sanguine redemisti.

Aeterna fac cum sanctis tuis in gloria numerari.

V.    Salvum fac populum tuum, Domine, et benedic hereditati
tuae.

R.    Et rege eos, et extolle illos usque in aeternum.

V.    Per singulos dies benedicimus te.

R.    Et laudamus nomen tuum in saeculum, et in saeculum
saeculi.

V.    Dignare, Domine, die isto sine peccato nos custodire.

R.    Miserere nostri, Domine: miserere nostri.

V.    Fiat misericordia tua, Domine, super nos, quemadmodum
speravimus in te.

R.    In te, Domine, speravi: non confundar in aeternum.
                         ---------------------

O God, we praise Thee, and acknowledge Thee to be the supreme
Lord.

Everlasting Father, all the earth worships Thee.

All the Angels, the heavens and all angelic powers,

All the Cherubim and Seraphim, continuously cry to Thee:

Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God of Hosts!

Heaven and earth are full of the Majesty of Thy glory.

The glorious choir of the Apostles,

The wonderful company of Prophets,

The white-robed army of Martyrs, praise Thee.

Holy Church throughout the world acknowledges Thee:

The Father of infinite Majesty;

Thy adorable, true and only Son;

Also the Holy Spirit, the Comforter.

O Christ, Thou art the King of glory!

Thou art the everlasting Son of the Father.

When Thou tookest it upon Thyself to deliver man,

Thou didst not disdain the Virgin's womb.

Having overcome the sting of death, Thou opened the Kingdom of
Heaven to all believers.

Thou sitest at the right hand of God in the glory of the
Father.

We believe that Thou willst come to be our Judge.

We, therefore, beg Thee to help Thy servants whom Thou hast
redeemed with Thy Precious Blood.

Let them be numbered with Thy Saints in everlasting glory.

V.    Save Thy people, O Lord, and bless Thy inheritance!

R.    Govern them, and raise them up forever.

V.    Every day we thank Thee.

R.    And we praise Thy Name forever, yes forever and ever.

V.    O Lord, deign to keep us from sin this day.

R.    Have mercy on us, O Lord, have mercy on us.

V.    Let Thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, for we have hoped in
Thee.

R.    O Lord, in Thee I have put my trust; let me never be put
to shame.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
God the Father
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                   ----Conversi ad Dominum Deum----
                   ----Let us Turn Towards the Lord God----

Written by St. Augustine(354-430) to conclude several of his
sermons. This one is found in his Sermo CLXXXIII.

Conversi ad Dominum Deum Patrem omnipotentem, puro corde ei,
quantum potest parvitas nostra, maximas atque veras gratias
agamus: precantes toto animo singularem mansuetudinem eius, ut
preces nostras in beneplacito suo exaudire dignetur; inimicum
quoque a nostris actibus et cogitationibus sua virtute
expellat, nobis multiplicet fidem, mentem gubernet,
spirituales cogitationes concedat, et ad beatitudinem suam
perducat per Iesum Christum Filium eius. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Let us turn towards the Lord God and Father Almighty, and with
a pure heart let us give Him sincere thanks as well as our
littleness will allow: Let us with our whole hearts beseech
His extraordinary clemency, that He may vouchsafe to hear our
prayers according to His good pleasure. May He by His power
drive our enemies far from us, lest we fall under the sway of
the evil one in act or thought. May He increase our faith,
rule our mind, give us spiritual thoughts, and at last lead us
to His blessedness, through Jesus Christ His Son. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


              ----Deus, qui fidei sacramenta----
              ----O God, Who in the Glorious Transfiguration--
--

This prayer comes from the Mass for the Feast of the
Transfiguration, Aug. 6. This particular version of it is
taken from the '62 Missal.

Deus, qui fidei sacramenta, in Unigeniti tui gloriosa
Transfiguratione, patrum testimonio roborasti, et adoptionem
filiorum perfectam, voce delapsa in nube lucida, mirabiliter
praesignasti; concede propitius, ut ipsius Regis gloriae nos
coheredes efficias et eisudem gloriae tribuas esse consortes.
Per eumdem Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O God, who in the glorious Transfiguration of Thine only-
begotten Son didst confirm the mysteries of faith by the
witness of the Fathers, and in wondrous wise didst foretoken
the perfect adoption of sons by the voice descending from the
shinning cloud; mercifully grant unto us to be made co-heirs
with the very King of glory and bestow upon us a partaking of
His glory. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----

                     ----Domine sancte, Pater omnipotens----
                     ----O Holy Lord, Father Almighty----

A prayer by St. Bonaventure (1218-1274) who was the greatest
exponent of Mystical Theology in the Middle Ages.

Domine sancte, Pater omnipotens, aeterne Deus, propter tuam
largitatem, et Filii tui, qui pro me sustinuit passionem et
mortem, et Matris eius excellentissimam sanctitatem, atque
omnium Sanctorum merita, concede mihi peccatori, et omni tuo
beneficio indigno, ut te solum diligam, tuum amorem semper
sitiam, beneficium passionis continuo in corde habeam, meam
miseriam recognoscam, et ab omnibus conculari et contemni
cupiam; nihil me contristet nisi culpa. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O holy Lord, Father almighty, everlasting God, for the sake of
Thy bounty and that of Thy Son, who for me endured suffering
and death; for the sake of the most excellent holiness of His
Mother and the merits of all the Saints, grant unto me a
sinner, unworthy of all Thy blessings, that I may love Thee
only, may ever thirst for Thy love, may have continually in my
heart the benefits of Thy passion, may acknowledge my own
wretchedness and may desire to be trampled upon and be
despised by all men; let nothing grieve me save guilt. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----O Omnium Domine----
                         ----O Lord of All----

By St. Gregory Nazianzen (329-389), Bishop and Doctor of the
Church. This prayer is taken from the readings at Matins for
Friday of the 31st week of ordinary time.

O omnium Domine et effector ac praecipue huius figmenti!
O Deus tuorum hominum et Pater ac gubernator!
O vitae et mortis arbiter!
O nostrarum animarum custos et benefactor!

O qui omnia facis, et tempestive, atque, ut ipse pro
sapientiae tuae et administrationis altitudine nosti, artifice
Verbo transmutas, nunc quidem Caesarium, discessus nostri
primitias, quaeso, suscipe.

Nos vero quoque opportuno tempore suscipe, tamdiu in carne
vitam nostram moderatus, quamdiu conducibile fuerit; et quidem
suscipe ob metum tuum paratos et non turbatos, neque in
extremo die terga vertentes atque invito animo, quemadmodum
solent qui mundo et carni addicti sunt, hinc abstractos et
avulsos, sed prompte at alacriter ad beatam illam et longaevam
vitam proficiscentes, quae est in Christo Iesu Domino nostro,
cui gloria in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O Lord and Creator of all, and especially of this creature!
O God and Father and Ruler of Thy people!
O Arbiter of life and death!
O Guardian and Benefactor of our souls!

O Thou who makest all, and in due season transformest all by
the power of Thy Word according to Thy wisdom and deep
designs, receive now, I beg thee, those who have gone before
us.

Receive us too at the opportune time, until Thou hast
restrained us in our fleshly life for as long as it will have
been to our advantage. Indeed receive us prepared by fear of
Thee and not troubled, nor turning back on that day of death,
nor unwilling like those who are accustomed to the world and
addicted to the flesh. Instead, may we set out eagerly for
that everlasting and blessed life which is in Christ Jesus our
Lord. To Him be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                   ----Oratio Sancti Clementis I----
                   ----Prayer of St. Clement I----

This prayer is found in the writings of Pope St. Clement I (c
38 - c 101) in his letter to the Corinthians. It appears in
Matins for Monday of the first week in ordinary time.

Ut speremus in nomine tuo, principio omnis creaturae, ut
oculis cordis nostri apertis cognoscamus te solum, altissimum
in altissimis, sanctus in sanctis quiescentem; qui humilias
arrogantiam superborum, solvis cogitationes gentium, humiles
elevas et excelsos humilias, divites facis et pauperes,
occidis et salvas et vivificas, solus benefactor spiritum et
Deus omnis carnis; qui intueris in abyssos, inspector operum
hominum, periclitantium, adiutor, desperantium salvator, omnis
spiritus creator et episcopus; qui gentes in terra multiplicas
et ex omnibus eligis eos, qui te diligunt per Iesum Christum
Filium tuum dilectum, per quem nos erudivisti, sanctificasti,
honorasti.

Rogamus te, Domine, ut sis adiutor et auxiliator noster. Eos
nostrum, qui in tribulatione sunt, libera, humilium miserere,
lapsos eleva, inopibus occurre, infirmos sana, errantes populi
tui converte; nutri esurientes, solve captivos nostros, erige
imbecilles, consolare pusillanimes; cognoscunto te omnes
gentes, quod tu es Deus solus et Iesus Christus puer tuus ac
nos populus tuus et oves pascuae tuae.

Tu enim perennem mundi constitutionem per effectus
manifestasti; tu, Domine, orbem terrae fundasti, fidelis in
omnibus generationibus, iustus in iudiciis, admirabilis in
fortitudine et magnificentia, sapiens in condendo et prudens
in creatis stabiliendis, bonus in iis, quae videntur, et
fidelis in eos, qui in te confidunt, benignus et misericors;
dimitte nobis iniquitates et iniustitias et peccata et delicta
nostra.

Ne imputes omne peccatum servorum tuorum et servarum, sed
purifica nos in veritate tua et dirige gressus nostros, ut in
pietate et iustitia et simplicitate cordis ambulemus et agamus
quae bona et beneplacita sunt coram te ac coram principibus
nostris.

Immo, Domine, ostende faciem tuam super nos, ut bonis fruamur
in pace, ut tegamur manu tua potenti et ab omni peccato
liberemur bracchio tuo excelso, ac libera nos ab iis, qui nos
oderunt iniuste.

Da concordiam ac pacem et nobis et omnibus habitantibus
terram, sicut dedisti patribus nostris, pie te invocantibus in
fide et veritate. Qui solus haec et plura bona nobiscum agere
potes, tibi confitemur per pontficem ac patronum animarum
nostrarum Iesum Christum, per quem tibi gloria et maiestas et
nunc et in generationem generationum et in saecula saeculorum.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

Give us the grace, Lord, to hope in Thy Name, to which all
creatures owe their being. Open the eyes of our hearts to know
Thee alone, the Most High in the highest heavens, whose
dwelling is in the holy of holies. Thou abasest the arrogance
of the proud, frustrate the designs of the godless, humble the
lofty and exalt the lowly, makest wealthy and poor, Thou
slayest, Thou savest and Thou bringest to life. Alone the
Benefactor of spirits and God of all flesh, Thy gaze
penetrates the depths, Thou observest the doings of men.
Helper of those in peril, Savior of those in despair, Creator
of all that draws breath, Thou causest the peoples on the
earth to multiply, and from them all choose those who love
Thee through Jesus Christ, Thy beloved Son. Through Him Thou
hast instructed us, sanctified us, honored us.

We ask Thee, O Lord, Lord, to be our supporter and our helper.
To those of us who are afflicted, free us,  pity the lowly,
raise the fallen, show thyself to the needy, heal the sick,
convert Thy wayward people, feed the hungry, deliver our
captives, support the weak, encourage the fainthearted. Let
all nations know that Thou alone art God and Jesus Christ is
Thy Son, and we are Thy people, the sheep of Thy flock.

Truly Thou hast established the world and revealed Thy
decrees. Thou art faithful through all generations, just in
judgment, admirable in strength and majesty, wise in building,
prudent in establishment, goodness in everything seen,
faithful to those who put their trust in Thee, and kind and
merciful. Dismiss from us our iniquities, our injustices, our
sins and our failings.

Do not hold the sins of Thy servants against them, but purify
us by Thy truth, and direct our steps that in holiness and
justice and simplicity of heart we may walk and so do what is
good and pleasing in Thy sight and in the sight of our
leaders.

O Lord, let the light of your face shine upon us, so that we
may enjoy Thy blessings in peace, protected by Thy strong
hand, and freed from all sin by Thy outstretched arm; and
deliver us from those who hate us unjustly.

Grant peace and concord to us and to all mankind, even as Thou
gavest it to our forefathers when they devoutly called upon
Thee in faith and in truth. Thou alone art able to bestow
these and even greater benefits upon us. We praise Thee
through our high priest and the patron of our souls, Jesus
Christ. Through Him be glory and majesty to Thee now and
throughout all generations, for ever and ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                 ----Perenne Lumen in Templo Aeterni----
                 ----Perpetual Light in the Eternal Temple----

Written by St. Columban(c543-615), abbot. This prayer is found
in his Instructio De Computctione, 12, 2-3 which is the
reading for Matins for Tuesday, 28th week of Ordinary time.

Domine, da mihi, rogo te, in nomine Iesu Christi Fili tui, Dei
mei, illam quae nescit cadere caritatem, ut mea lucerna
accendi sciat, exstingui nesciat; mihi ardeat, aliis luceat.

Tu, Christe, lucernas nostras accendere digneris, dulcissime
nobis salvator noster, quo perpetuae luceant in templo tuo, ac
perenne lumen a te perenni lumine accipiant, ut tenebrae
nostrae illuminentur, mundi autem tenebrae a nobis fugentur.

Sic lumen tuum meae largiaris, rogo, Iesu mi, lucernae, ut
illius luce illa sancta sanctorum mihi appareant, quae te
aeternum Pontificem aeternorum in antibus magni illius tui
templi illic intrantem habeant, quo te iugitur tantummodo
videam, aspiciam, desiderem; tantum te amans conspiciam ac
coram te mea semper lucerna luceat, ardeat.

Tuum sit, quaeso, te nobis pulsantibus monstrare, amantissime
Salvator, ut te intelligentes, tantum te amemus, te solum
amemus, te somum desideremus, te solum meditemur die ac nocte,
semper te cogitemus; et in tantum nobis tuum inspirare
digneris amorem, quantum te amari Deum decet ac diligi; ut
omnia interiora nostra tua occupet dilectio, totosque nos tuus
possideat amor, totos nostros sensus tua impleat caritas, ut
praeter te aliud amare nesciamus, qui sempiternus es; quo
tanta caritas aquis multis huius aeris et huius terrae et
huius maris exstingui in nobis nequeat iuxta illud; Et aquae
multae non potuerunt extinguere caritatem.

Quod in nobis quoque compleri vel ex parte posit, te donante
Domino nostro Iesu Christo, cui gloria in saecula saeculorum.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

O Lord, in the name of Jesus Christ, Thy Son and my God, I ask
Thee to give me the love that never fails so that my lantern
may always be lighted, never failing, burning within me within
me and giving light to others.

Thou, O Christ, our sweetest Savior, deign to light our lamps
so that they may burn forever in Thy temple, may they receive
eternal light from Thee, the Eternal Light, and by it may our
darkness be illuminated and the darkness of the world
dispelled from us.

O my Jesus, I beg Thee to give Thy light to my lantern, so
that I may see by its light the Holy of Holies, which has
Thee, the eternal High Priest, entering among the great
columns of Thy temple. May I see Thee only , look upon Thee,
desire Thee; may I gaze lovingly upon Thee alone and before
Thee may my lamp always shine, always burn.

O Most Loving Savior, I beseech Thee, be pleased to show
Thyself to us who knock, that in knowing Thee we may love Thee
only, that we may love Thee alone, that we may desire Thee
alone, that we may meditate day and night on Thee alone, and
that we may always contemplate Thee alone. Deign to inspire in
us as much of Thy love as is fitting to be received by Thee as
God, so that our whole being may be occupied by Thy love, so
that Thy love may posses us completely, so that it may fill
our senses, and so that we may not know any other love but for
Thee, Who art eternal. May so great a love in us be unable to
be extinguished by the many waters of this earth, sea, and
sky. Many waters have not been able to extinguish love.

May this too be fulfilled in us or at least in part, by Thy
gift, Our Lord Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and
ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----

--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
God the Son
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                         ----Adoramus te----
                         ----We Adore Thee----

Shortly before his death in October of 1226, St. Francis wrote
his Testament which contained his last thoughts concerning the
order he founded. In it he urged his followers to remain
faithful to the rules of the order. The prayer below is taken
from this work and was inspired by the Liturgy of Holy
Thursday. St. Gregory the Great recommended it to be recited
in his Liber Responsalis (PL 78, 805) as did the monk Arnulphe
in Documenta Vitae Religiosae (PL 184, 1177).

Adoramus te, sanctissime Domine Iesu Christe, hic et ad omnes
Ecclesias tuas, quae sunt in toto mundo, et benedicimus tibi;
quia per sanctam Crucem tuam redemisti mundum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

We adore Thee, most holy Lord Jesus Christ, here and in all
Thy churches that are in the whole world, and we bless Thee;
because by Thy Holy Cross Thou hast redeemed the World. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Domine Iesu----
                         ----Lord, Jesus----

Domine Iesu,
     per vagitus Tui in praesepio pro me nascentis,
     per lacrimas Tui in cruce pro me morientis,
     per amorem Tui in tabernaculo pro me viventis,
     miserere mei et salva me.
                         ---------------------

Lord Jesus,
     Through Thine infant cries when Thou wast born for me in
the manger,
     Through Thy tears when Thou didst die for me on the
Cross,
     Through Thy love as Thou livest for me in the tabernacle,
     Have mercy on me and save me.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                  ----Domine Iesu, noverim me----
                  ----Lord Jesus, Let me Know Myself----

Written by St. Augustine (354-430).

Domine Iesu, noverim me, noverim te,
Nec aliquid cupiam nisi te.
Oderim me et amem te.
Omnia agam propter te.
Humilem me, exaltem te.
Nihil cogitem nisi te.
Mortificem me et vivam in te.
Quaecumque eveniant accipiam a te.
Persequar me, sequar te,
Semerque optem sequi te.
Fugiam me, confugiam ad te,
Ut merear defendi a te.
Timeam mihi, timeam te,
Et sim inter electos a te.
Diffidam mihi, fidam in te.
Obedire velim propter te.
Ad nihil afficiar nisi ad te,
Et pauper sim propter te.
Aspice me, ut diligam te.
Voca me, ut videam te,
Et in aeternum fruar te. Amen.
       ---------------------

Lord Jesus, let me know myself and know Thee,
And desire nothing save only Thee.
Let me hate myself and love Thee.
Let me do everything for the sake of Thee.
Let me humble myself and exalt Thee.
Let me think nothing except Thee.
Let me die to myself and live in Thee.
Let me accept whatever happens as from Thee.
Let me banish self and follow Thee,
And ever desire to follow Thee.
Let me fly from myself and take refuge in Thee,
That I may deserve to be defended by Thee.
Let me fear for myself, let me fear Thee,
And let me be among those who are chosen by Thee.
Let me distrust myself and put my trust in Thee.
Let me be willing to obey for the sake of Thee.
Let me cling to nothing save only to Thee,
And let me be poor because of Thee.
Look upon me, that I may love Thee.
Call me that I may see Thee,
And for ever enjoy Thee. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Iesu, Dulcis Memoria----
                         ----Jesus, Sweet Memory----

Iesu, Dulcis Memoria is a celebrated 11th century poem
attributed to St. Bernard (1090-1153). At one time, parts of
it were used in the Liturgy on the feast of the Holy Name of
Jesus in the Divine Office. The complete poem is 168 lines
long. The following is a shorter version;

Iesu, dulcis memoria,
Dans vers cordis gaudia,
Sed super mel et omnia,
Eius dulcis praesentia.
Nil cantur suavius,
Nil auditur iucundius,
Nil cogitatur dulcius,
Quam Iesus Dei Filius.
Iesu, spes poenitentibus,
Quam pius es petentibus!
Quam bonus te quaerentibus!
Sed quid invenientibus?
Nec lingua valet dicere,
Nec littera exprimere:
Expertus potest credere,
Quid sit Iesum diligere.
Sis, Iesu, nostrum gaudium,
Qui es futurus praemium:
Sit nostra in te gloria,
Per cuncta semper saecula.
Amen.
    ---------------------


O sweet memory of Jesus,
Giving real joys of the heart,
But above honey and all things
Is His sweet presence.
Nothing sweeter is sung,
Nothing more pleasant is heard,
Nothing lovelier is thought,
Than Jesus, the Son of God.
Jesus, hope of penitents,
How kind You are to seekers!
How good to those asking for You!
What, then, to those who find?
Neither tongue is able to say,
Nor letters to express:
He who has experienced can believe
What it is to love Jesus.
May You, Jesus, be our joy,
Who is to be our reward:
May our glory be in You
For all the ages always.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                   ----Iesu dulcissime, Redemptor----
                   ----Most Sweet Jesus, Redeemer----

This Act of Dedication of the Human Race to Jesus Christ
carries a partial indulgence. If it is recited publicly on the
feast of Christ the King a plenary indulgence is granted.

Iesu dulcissime, Redemptor humani generis, respice nos ad
conspectum tuum humillime provolutos. Tui sumus, tui esse
volumus; quo autem tibi coniuncti firmius esse possimus, en
hodie sacratissimo Cordi tuo se quisque nostrum sponte
dedicat. Te quidem multi novere nunquam; te, spretis mandatis
tuis, multi repudiarunt. Miserere utrorumque, benignissime
Iesu, atque ad sanctum Cor tuum rape universos.

Rex esto, Domine, nec fidelium tantum qui nullo tempore
discessere a te, sed etiam prodigorum filiorum qui te
reliquerunt; fac hos, ut domum paternam cito repetant, ne
miseria et fame pereant.

Rex esto eorum, quos aut opinionum error deceptos habet, aut
discordia separatos, eosque ad portum veritatis atque ad
unitatem fidei revoca, ut brevi fiat unum ovile et unus
pastor.

Largire, Domine, Ecclesiae tuae securam cum incolumitate
libertatem; largire cunctis gentibus tranquillitatem ordinis;
perfice, ut ab utroque terrae vertice una resonet vox: Sit
laus divino Cordi, per quod nobis parta salus: ipsi gloria et
honor in saecula! Amen.
                         ---------------------

Most sweet Jesus, Redeemer of the human race, look down upon
us humbly prostrate before Thee. We are Thine, and Thine we
wish to be; but to be more surely united with Thee, behold
each one of us freely consecrates himself today to Thy Most
Sacred Heart. Many indeed have never known Thee; many, too,
despising Thy precepts, have rejected Thee. Have mercy on them
all, most merciful Jesus, and draw them to Thy Sacred Heart.

Be King, O Lord, not only of the faithful who have never
forsaken Thee, but also of the prodigal children who have
abandoned Thee; grant that they may quickly return to their
Father's house, lest they die of wretchedness and hunger.

Be King of those who are deceived by erroneous opinions, or
whom discord keeps aloof, and call them back to the harbor of
truth and the unity of faith, so that soon there may be but
one flock and one Shepherd.

Grant, O Lord, to Thy Church assurance of freedom and immunity
from harm; give tranquillity of order to all nations; make the
earth resound from pole to pole with one cry: Praise to the
divine Heart that wrought our salvation; to It be glory and
honor for ever! Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Iesu Infans Dulcissime----
                         ----Jesu, Sweetest Child----

A prayer to the infant Jesus that mediates upon the mysteries
of His infancy.

V. Deus in adiutorium meum intende.

R. Domine, ad adiuvandum me festina.

V. Gloria Patri et Filio et Spiritui Sancto,

R. Sicut erat in principio et nunc et semper, et in saecula
saeculorum. Amen.

Pater noster...

I. Iesu Infans dulcissime, e sinu Patris propter nostram
salutem descendens, de Spiritu Sancto conceptus, Virginis
uterum non horrens, et Verbum caro factum, formam servi
accipiens, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

II. Iesu Infans dulcissime, per Virginem Matrem tuam visitans
Elisabeth, Ioannem Baptistam Praecursorem tuum Spiritu Sancto
replens, et adhuc in utero matris suae sanctificans, miserere
nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

III. Iesu Infans dulcissime, novem mensibus in utero clausus,
summis votis a Maria Virgine et a sancto Ioseph expectatus, et
a Deo Patri pro salute mundi oblatus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

IV. Iesu Infans dulcissime, in Bethlehem ex Virginie Maria
natus, pannis involutus, in praesepio reclinatus, ab Angelis
annuntiatus et pastoribus visitatus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

    Iesu, tibi sit gloria,
    Qui natus es de Virigine
    Cum Patre et almo Spiritu,
    In sempiterna saecula. Amen.

    V. Christe prope est nobis
    R. Venite, adoremus.

Pater noster......

V. Iesu, Infans dulcissime, in Circumcisione post dies octo
vulneratus, glorioso Iesu nomine vocatus, et in nomine simul
et sanguine Salvatoris officio praesignatus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

VI. Iesu Infans dulcissime, stella duce tribus Magis
demostratus, in sinu Matris adoratus, et mysticis muneribus,
auro, thure, et myrrha donatus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

VII. Iesu Infans dulcissime, in templo a Matre Virigine
praesentatus, inter brachia a Simeone amplexatus, et ab Anna
prophetissa Israel revelatus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

VIII. Iesu Infans dulcissime, ab iniquo Herode ad mortem
quaesitus, a sancto Ioseph in Aegyptum cum Matre deportatus, a
crudeli caede sublatus, et praeconiis Martyrum Innocentium
glorificatus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

    Iesu, tibi sit gloria,
    Qui natus es de Virigine
    Cum Patre et almo Spiritu,
    In sempiterna saecula. Amen.

    V. Christe prope est nobis
    R. Venite, adoremus.

Pater noster......

IX. Iesu Infans dulcissime, in Aegyptum cum Maria sanctissima
et Patriarcha sancto Ioseph usque ad obitum Herodis
commoratus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

X. Iesu Infans dulcissime, ex Aegypto cum Parentibus in terram
Israel reversus, multo labores in itinere perpessus, et in
civitate Nazareth ingressus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

XI. Iesu Infans duclcissime, in sancta Nazarena domo, subditus
Parentibus, sanctissime commoratus, paupertate et laboribus
faticatus, in sapientiae, aetatis et gratiae profectu
confortatus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

XII. Iesu Infans dulcissime, in Ierusalem doudennis ductus, a
Parentibus cum dolore quaesitus, et post triduum cum gaudio
inter Doctores inventus, miserere nostri.

    R. Miserere nostri, Iesu Infans, miserere nostri. Ave
Maria...

    Iesu, tibi sit gloria,
    Qui natus es de Virigine
    Cum Patre et almo Spiritu,
    In sempiterna saecula. Amen.

Die Nativitatis Domini et per Octavam:
    V. Verbum caro factum est, alleluia.
    R. Et habitavit in nobis, alleluia.

In Epiphania Domini et per Octavam
    V. Christus manifestavit se nobis, alleluia.
    R. Venite, adoremus, alleluia.

Per annum;
    V. Verbum caro factum est.
    R. Et habitavit in nobis.

Oremus:

Omnipotens sempiterne Deus, Domine caeli et terrae, qui te
revelas parvulis; concede, quaesumus, ut nos sacrosancta Filii
tui Infantis Iesu mysteria digno honore recolentes, dignaque
imitatione sectantes, ad regnum caelorum promissum parvulis
pervenire valeamus. Per eumdem Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

V. O God, come unto my assistance!

R. O Lord, make haste to help me!

V. Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Spirit;

R. As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be forever.
Amen.

Our Father.....

I. Jesu, sweetest Child, who didst come down from the bosom of
the Father for our salvation, who wast conceived by the Holy
Spirit, who didst not abhor the Virgin's womb, and who, being
the Word made flesh, didst take upon Thee the form of a
servant, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

II. Jesu, sweetest Child, who by means of Thy Virgin Mother
didst visit Saint Elizabeth, who didst fill Thy forerunner,
John the Baptist, with Thy Holy Spirit and didst sanctify him
in his mother's womb, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

III. Jesu, sweetest Child, who, enclosed for nine months in
Thy Mother's womb, wast looked for with eager expectation by
the Virgin Mary and Saint Joseph, and wast offered by God the
Father for the salvation of the world, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

IV. Jesu, sweetest Child, born in Bethlehem of the Virgin
Mary, wrapped in swaddling clothes and lain in a manger,
announced by Angles and visited by shepherds, have mercy on
us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

    All honor, laud, and glory be,
    O Jesu, Virgin-born, to Thee;
    All glory, as is ever meet,
    To the Father and to Paraclete. Amen.

    V. Christ is near to us.
    R. Come let us adore Him.

    Our Father.....

V. Jesu, sweetest Child, wounded after eight days in Thy
circumcision, called by the glorious Name of Jesus, and at
once by Thy Name and by Thy Blood foreshown as the Savior of
the world, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

VI. Jesu, sweetest Child,  manifested by the leading of a star
to the Three Wise Men, worshipped in the arms of Thy Mother,
presented with the mystic gifts of gold, frankincense and
myrrh, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

VII. Jesu, sweetest Child, presented in the temple by Thy
Virgin Mother, taken up in Simeon's arms, and revealed to
Israel by Anna, a prophetess, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

VIII. Jesu, sweetest Child, sought by wicked Herod to be
slain, carried with Thy Mother into Egypt by Saint Joseph,
rescued from the cruel slaughter, and glorified by the praises
of the martyred Innocents, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

    All honor, laud, and glory be,
    O Jesu, Virgin-born, to Thee;
    All glory, as is ever meet,
    To the Father and to Paraclete. Amen.

    V. Christ is near to us.
    R. O Come let us worship.

    Our Father.....

IX. Jesu, sweetest Child, who didst dwell in Egypt with most
Holy Mary and the Patriarch, Saint Joseph until the death of
Herod, have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

X. Jesu, sweetest Child, who didst return from Egypt to the
land of Israel with Thy parents, suffering many hardships in
the way, and didst enter into the city of Nazareth, have mercy
on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

XI. Jesu, sweetest Child, who didst dwell most holily in the
holy house at Nazareth, in subjection to Thy parents, wearied
by poverty and toil, didst increase in wisdom, age, and grace,
have mercy on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

XII. Jesu, sweetest Child, brought to Jerusalem at twelve
years of age, sought by Thy parents sorrowing and found with
joy after three days in the midst of the Doctors, have mercy
on us.

    R. Have mercy on us, Child Jesus, have mercy on us. Hail
Mary...

    All honor, laud, and glory be,
    O Jesu, Virgin-born, to Thee;
    All glory, as is ever meet,
    To the Father and to Paraclete. Amen.

For Christmas and its Octave:
    V. The Word was made flesh, alleluia
    R. And dwelt among us, alleluia.

For Epiphany and its Octave:
    V. Christ hath manifested Himself to us, alleluia.
    R. O come let us worship, alleluia.

Throughout the year:
    V. The Word was made flesh.
    R. And dwelt among us.

Let us pray:

Almighty and everlasting God, Lord of heaven and earth, who
dost reveal Thyself to little ones; grant we beseech Thee,
that we, venerating with due honor the sacred mysteries of Thy
Son, the Child Jesus, and copying them with due imitation, may
be enabled to enter the kingdom of heaven which Thou hast
promised to little children. Through the same Christ our Lord.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Victimae Paschali----

Victimae Paschali is the Sequence for Easter Sunday. It is
usually attributed to Wipo of Burgundy (1039), chaplain of the
German Emperor Conrad II in the 11th century. It has also been
attributed to Notker Balbulus (10th century) and Adam of St.
Victor (13th century).

Victimae Paschali laudes immolent Christiani.
Agnus redemit oves:
Christus innocens Patri reconciliavet peccatores.
Mors et vita duello conflixere mirando:
Dux vitae mortuus, regnat vivus.
Dic nobis Maria,
Quid vidisti in via?
Sepulcrum Christi viventis,
Et gloriam vidi resurgentis:
Angelicos testes,
Sudarium et vestes.
Surrexit Christus spes mea:
Praecedet suos in Galilaeam.
Scimus Christum surrexisse a mortuis vere:
Tu nobis, victor Rex miserere.
Amen. Alleluia.
     ---------------------

Christians, to the Paschal Victim offer sacrifice and praise.
The sheep are ransomed by the Lamb;
and Christ, the undefiled, hath sinners to his Fathers
reconciled.
Death with life contended: combat strangely ended!
Life's own Champion, slain, yet lives to reign.
Tell us, Mary:
say what thou didst see upon the way.
The tomb the Living did enclose;
I saw Christ's glory as He rose!
The angels there attesting;
shroud with grave-clothes resting.
Christ, my hope, has risen:
He goes before you into Galilee.
That Christ is truly risen from the dead we know.
Victorious King, Thy mercy show!
Amen. Alleluia.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
The Cross
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                         ----Deus, qui pro nobis----
                         ----O God, Who for Our Sake----

Deus, qui pro nobis Filium tuum Crucis patibulum subire
voluisti, ut inimici a nobis expelleres potestatem: concede
nobis famulis tuis; ut resurrectionis gratiam consequamur. Per
eumdem Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O God, who for our sake didst will Thy Son to undergo the
torments of the Cross, that Thou mightest drive far from us
the power of the enemy; grant unto us Thy servants that we may
attain to the grace of His Resurrection. Through the same
Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Crux Fidelis----
                         ----Faithful Cross----

Attributed to Venantius Fortunatus (Honorius Clementianus)
(530 - 609), Bishop of Poitiers, whose Latin poems and hymns
combine the elements of classical and medieval composition.

Crux fidelis, inter omnes
Arbor una nobilis;
Nulla silva talem profert,
Fronde, flore germine.
Dulce lignum, dulce clavos,
Dulce pondus sustinet.
Amen.
    ---------------------

Faithful Cross, O tree all beauteous,
Tree all peerless and divine:
Not a grove on earth can show us
Such a leaf and flower as thine.
Sweet the nails and sweet the wood,
Laden with so sweet a load.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Pange Lingua----
                         ----Sing, my Tongue----

There are two Pange Linguas in use, one by St. Thomas Aquinas
and then this one, by Venantius Fortunatus which extols the
triumph of the Cross. It is used on Good Friday during the
Adoration of the Cross and in the Liturgy of the Hours on
feasts of the Cross.

Pange, lingua, gloriosi
Proelium certaminis,
Et super crucis trophaeo
Dic triumphum nobilem,
Qualiter redemptor orbis
Immolatus vicerit.
De parentis protoplasti
Fraude factor condolens,
Quando pomi noxalis
Morte morsu corruit,
Ipse lignum tunc notavit,
Damna ligni ut solveret.
Hoc opus nostrae salutis
Ordo depoposcerat,
Multiformis proditoris
Arte ut artem falleret,
Et medelam ferret inde,
Hostis unde laeserat.
Quando venit ergo sacri
Plenitudo temporis,
Missus est ab arce Patris
Natus, orbis, Conditor,
Atque ventre virginali
Carne factus prodiit.
Vagit infans inter arcta
Conditus praesepia:
Membra pannis involuta
Virgo Mater alligat:
Et manus pedesque et crura
Stricta cingit fascia.
Lustra sex qui iam peracta
Tempus implens corporis,
Se volente, natus ad hoc,
Passioni deditus,
Agnus in crucis levatur
Immolandus stipite.
En acetum, fel, arundo,
Sputa, clavi, lancea:
Mite corpus perforatur,
Sanguis, unda profluit
Terra, pontus, astra, mundus,
Quo lavantur flumine!
Flecte ramos, arbor alta,
Tensa laxa viscera,
Et rigor lentescat ille,
Quem dedit nativitas,
Ut superni membra regis
Miti tendas stipite.
Sola digna tu fuisti
Ferre saeculi pretium,
Atque portum praeparare
Nauta mundo naufrago,
Quem sacer cruor perunxit,
Fusus Agni corpore.
Aequa Patri Filioque,
Inclito Paraclito,
Sempiterna sit beatae
Trinitati gloria,
Cuius alma nos redemit
Atque servat gratia. Amen.
    ---------------------


Sing, my tongue, the Savior's glory;
    tell His triumph far and wide;
Tell aloud the famous story
    of His body crucified;
How upon the cross a victim,
    vanquishing in death, He died.
Eating of the tree forbidden,
    man had sunk in Satan's snare,
When our pitying Creator did
    this second tree prepare;
Destined, many ages later,
    that first evil to repair.
Such the order God appointed
    when for sin He would atone;
To the serpent thus opposing
    schemes yet deeper than his own;
Thence the remedy procuring,
    when fatal the wound had come.
So when now at length the fullness
    of the sacred time drew nigh,
Then the Son, the world's Creator,
    left his Father's throne on high;
>From a virgin's womb appearing,
    clothed in our mortality.
All within a lowly manger,
    lo, a tender babe He lies!
See his gentle Virgin Mother
    lull to sleep his infant cries!
While the limbs of God incarnate
    round with swathing bands she ties.
Thus did Christ to perfect manhood
    in our mortal flesh attain:
Then of His free choice He goeth
    to a death of bitter pain;
And as a lamb, upon the altar of the cross,
    for us is slain.
Lo, with gall His thirst He quenches!
    See the thorns upon His brow!
Nails His tender flesh are rending!
    See His side is opened now!
Whence, to cleanse the whole creation,
    streams of blood and water flow.
Lofty tree, bend down thy branches,
    to embrace thy sacred load;
Oh, relax the native tension
    of that all too rigid wood;
Gently, gently bear the members
    of thy dying King and God.
Tree, which solely wast found worthy
    the world's Victim to sustain.
Harbor from the raging tempest!
    Ark, that saved the world again!
Tree, with sacred blood anointed
    of the Lamb for sinners slain.
Blessing, honor, everlasting,
    to the immortal Deity;
To the Father, Son, and Spirit,
    equal praises ever be;
Glory through the earth and heaven
    to Trinity in Unity. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Vexilla Regis----
                         ----Royal Banners----

Vexilla Regis was written by Venantius Fortunatus (530-609)
and is a hymn about the triumph of Christ's suffering. It is
sung at Vespers (Evening Prayer) from Passion Sunday to Holy
Thursday and on the Feast of the Triumph of the Cross. It was
also formerly sung on Good Friday when the Blessed Sacrament
was taken from the repository to the altar.

Vexilla Regis prodeunt;
Fulget Crucis mysterium,
Qua vita mortem pertulit,
Et morte vitam protulit.
Quae vulnerata lanceae
Mucrone diro criminum
Ut nos lavaret sordibus,
Manavit unda et sanguine.
Impleta sunt quae concinit
David fideli carmine,
Dicendo nationibus:
Regnavit a ligno Deus.
Arbor decora et fulgida,
Ornata Regis purpura,
Electa digno stipite
Tam sancta membra tangere.
Beata, cuius brachiis
Pretium pependit saeculi:
Statera facta corporis,
Tulitque praedam tartari.
O Crux ave, spes unica,
Gentis redemptae gloria*
Piis adauge gratiam,
Reisque dele crimina.
Te, fons salutis Trinitas,
Collaudet omnis spiritus:
Quibus Crucis victoriam
Largiris, adde praemium. Amen.

Tempore Passionis:
    Hoc Passionis tempore!
Tempore Paschali:
    Paschale quae fers gaudium!
In festo Exaltationis Sanctae Crucis:
    In hac triumphi gloria.
      ---------------------


The royal banners forward go;
The Cross shines forth in mystic glow,
Where Life for sinners death endured,
And Life by death for us procured.
Where deep for us the spear was dyed,
Life's torrent rushing from His side,
To wash us in that precious flood
Where mingled, Water flowed, and Blood.
Fulfilled is all that David told
In true prophetic song of old;
"Amid the nations, God," said he,
"Has reigned and triumphed from the Tree."
O Tree of beauty! Tree of light!
O Tree with royal purple dight!
Elect on whose triumphal breast
Those holy Limbs should find their sest.
On whose dear arms, so widely flung,
The weight of this world's ransom hung:
The price of humankind to pay
And spoil the spoiler of his prey.
O Cross, our one reliance, hail,
Thou glory of the saved*, avail
To give fresh merit to the Saint,
And pardon to the penitent.
To You, Eternal Three in One,
Let homage meet by all be done;
Whom by the Cross You do restore,
Preserve and govern evermore. Amen.


Passiontide:
    This holy Passiontide
Paschal Season:
    Thou joy of Eastertide
Feast of the Exaltation of the Cross:
    On this triumphant day.
    (Tr. J. M. Neale)
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
The Sacred Heart
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


               ----Deus, qui nobis, in Corde Filii tui----
               ----O God, in the Heart of Thy Son----

This is the opening prayer for the Feast of the Most Sacred
Heart of Jesus

Deus, qui nobis, in Corde Filii tui, nostris vulnerato
peccatis, infinitos dilectionis thesauros misericorditer
largiri dignaris; concede, quaesumus, ut illi devotum pietatis
nostrae praestantes obsequium, dignae quoque satisfactionis
exhibeamus officium. Per eundem Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
                         ------------------------

O God, Thou mercifully deignst to bestow on us in the Heart of
Thy Son, wounded by our sins, an infinite treasure of love;
grant, we beseech Thee, that rendering It the devout homage of
our affection, we may also make a worthy reparation for our
sins. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                 ----Cor, arca legem continens----
                 ----O Heart, Thou Ark Where Lies the Law----

This hymn is used at Matins on the feast of the Sacred Heart.

Cor, arca legem continens
Non servitutis veteris,
Sed gratiae, sed veniae,
Sed et misericordiae.
Cor, sanctuarium novi
Intemeratum foederis,
Templum vetusto sanctius,
Velumque scisso utilius.
Te vulneratum caritas
Ictu patenti voluit,
Amoris invisibilis
Ut veneremur vulnera.
Hoc sub amoris symbolo
Passus cruenta et mystica,
Utrumque sacrificium
Christus sacerdos obtulit.
Quis non amantem redamet?
Quis non redemptus diligat,
Et Corde in isto seligat
Aeterna tabernacula?
Iesu, tibi sit gloria,
Qui Corde fundis gratiam
Cum Patre et almo Spiritu
In sempiterna saecula. Amen.
   ------------------------


O Heart!, thou where lies the law,
Not of servitude of old,
But that from which we pardon draw,
And grace and mercies manifold.
Heart, the pure and stainless shrine
Where that new covenant has lain:
Temple than Salem's more divine;
Veil, better than its veil in twain.
With such a wound as must appear
Love willed that Thou shouldst wounded be,
That we might all the wounds revere,
Which love doth bear invisibly.
'Neath this, love's symbol, suffering twice,
Things mystical and bloody both
Christ, as a priest, in sacrifice
To Heaven uplifted, nothing loth.
Who would not love for love repay?
What man, redeemed, could love refuse
To this Heart, or herein, for aye,
His tabernacle fail to choose?
Jesu, to Thee be glory given,
Who from Thy Heart dost grace outpour;
To Father and to Paraclete
Be endless praise for evermore. Amen.
    (tr. J. Fitzpatrick)
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Auctor beate saeculi----
                         ----Jesu, Creator of the World----

This hymn is used at Vespers on the Solemnity of the Sacred
Heart of Jesus.

Auctor beate saeculi,
Christe Redemptor omnium,
Lumen Patris de lumine,
Deusque verus de Deo.
Amor coegit te tuus
Mortale corpus sumere,
Ut, novus Adam, redderes,
Quod vetus ille abstulerat.
Ille amor almus artifex
Terrae marisque et siderum,
Errata patrum miserans
Et nostra rumpens vincula.
Non Corde discedat tuo
Vis illa amoris inclyti:
Hoc fonte gentes hauriant
Remissionis gratiam.
Ad hoc acerbam lanceam
Passumque ad hoc est vulnera,
Ut nos lavaret sordibus,
Unda fluente et sanguine.
Iesu, tibi sit gloria,
Qui Corde fundis gratiam
Cum Patre et almo Spiritu
In sempiterna saecula. Amen.
    ------------------------


Jesu! Creator of the world,
Of all mankind Redeemer blest,
True God of God, in Whom we see
Thy Father's image clear expressed!
Thee, Savior, love alone constrained
To make our mortal flesh Thine own,
And as a second Adam, come
For the first Adam to atone.
That selfsame love which made the sky,
Which made the sea and the stars, and earth,
Took pity on our misery,
And broke the bondage of our birth.
O Jesus! in Thy Heart divine
May that same love for ever glow!
Forever mercy to mankind
>From that exhausted fountain flow!
For this the Sacred Heart was pierced,
And both with blood and water ran-
To cleanse us from the stains of guilt,
And be the hope and strength of man.
Jesu, to Thee be glory given,
Who from Thy Heart dost grace outpour,
To Father and to Paraclete
Be endless praise for evermore. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                ----Litania Cordis Sanctae Iesu----
                ----Litany of the Sacred Heart of Jesus----

In 1899 Pope Leo XIII approved this Litany of the Sacred Heart
of Jesus for public use. This litany is actually a synthesis
of several other litanies dating back to the 17th century.
Father Croiset composed a litany in 1691 from which 17
invocations were used by Venerable Anne Madeleine Remuzat when
she composed her litany in 1718 at Marseille. She joined an
additional 10 invocations to those of Father Croiset, for a
total of 27 invocations.  Six more invocations written by
Sister Madeleine Joly of Dijon in 1686, were added by the
Sacred Congregation for Rites when it was approved for public
use in 1899. This makes a total of 33 invocations, one for
each year of life of our Lord Jesus Christ. A partial
indulgence is attached to this litany.

Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison.
Christe, eleison
Christe, eleison.
Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison.
Christe, audi nos                                     Christe,
audi nos.
Christe, exaudi nos.                                Christe,
exaudi nos.
Pater de caelis, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Fili, Redemptor mundi, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Spiritus Sancte, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Sancta Trinitas, unus Deus,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, Filii Patris aeterni,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, in sinu Virginis Matris a Spiritu Sancto formatum

miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, Verbo Dei substantialiter unitum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, maiestatis inifinitae,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, templum Dei sanctum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, tabernaculum Altissimi,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, domus Dei et porta caeli,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, fornax ardens caritatis,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, iustitiae et amoris receptaculum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, bonitate et amore plenum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, virtutem omnium abyssus,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, omni laude dignissimum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, rex et centrum omnium cordium,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, in quo sunt omnes thesauri sapientiae et scientiae,

miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, in quo habitat omnis plenitudo divinitatis,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, in quo Pater sibi bene complacuit,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, de cuius plenitudine omnes nos accepimus,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, desiderium collium aeternorum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, patiens et multae misericordiae,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, dives in omnes qui invocant te,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, fons vitae et sanctitatis,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, propitiatio pro peccatis nostris,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, saturatum opprobriis,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, attritum propter scelera nostra,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, usque ad mortem obediens factum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, lancea perforatum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, fons totius consolationis,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, vita et resurrectio nostra,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, pax et reconciliatio nostra,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, victima peccatorum,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, salus in te sperantium,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, spes in te morientium,
miserere nobis.
Cor Iesu, deliciae Sanctorum omnium,
miserere nobis.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,                parce
nobis, Domine.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,                 exaudi
nos, Domine.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,             miserere
nobis, Domine.

V. Iesu, mitis et humilis Corde,
R. Fac cor nostrum secundum Cor tuum.

Oremus;
Omnipotens sempiterne Deus, respice in Cor dilectissimi Filii
tui et in laudes et satisfactiones, quas in nomine peccatorum
tibi persolvit, iisque misericordiam tuam petentibus, tu
veniam concede placatus in nomine eiusdem Filii tui Iesu
Christi: Qui tecum vivit et regnat in saecula saeculorum.
Amen.
                         ---------------------


Lord, have mercy                                       Lord,
have mercy.
Christ, have mercy                                   Christ,
have mercy.
Lord, have mercy                                       Lord,
have mercy.
Christ, hear us
Christ, hear us.
Christ, graciously hear us.                  Christ,
graciously hear us.
God the Father of Heaven,                              have
mercy on us.
God the Son, Redeemer of the world,                    have
mercy on us.
God, the Holy Spirit,                                  have
mercy on us.
Holy Trinity, One God,                                 have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, Son of the Eternal Father,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, formed by the Holy Spirit in the womb
     of the Virgin Mother,                             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, substantially united to the
     Word of God,                                      have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, of Infinite Majesty,                   have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, Sacred Temple of God,                  have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, Tabernacle of the Most High,           have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, House of God and Gate of Heaven,       have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, burning furnace of charity,            have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, abode of justice and love,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, full of goodness and love,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, abyss of all virtues,                  have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, most worthy of all praise,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, king and center of all hearts,         have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, in whom are all treasures of wisdom
     and knowledge,                                    have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, in whom dwells the fullness of
     divinity,                                         have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, in whom the Father was well pleased,   have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, of whose fullness we have all
     received,                                         have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, desire of the everlasting hills,       have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, patient and most merciful,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, enriching all who invoke Thee,         have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, fountain of life and holiness,         have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, propitiation for our sins,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, loaded down with opprobrium,           have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, bruised for our offenses,              have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, obedient to death,                     have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, pierced with a lance,                  have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, source of all consolation,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, our life and resurrection,             have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, our peace and our reconciliation,      have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, victim for our sins                    have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, salvation of those who trust in Thee,  have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, hope of those who die in Thee,         have
mercy on us.
Heart of Jesus, delight of all the Saints,             have
mercy on us.
Lamb of God, who take away the sins of the world,      spare
us, O Lord.
Lamb of God, who take away the sins of the world,
                                             graciously hear
us, O Lord.
Lamb of God, who take away the sins of the world,
                                               have mercy on
us, O Lord.

V. Jesus, meek and humble of heart.
R. Make our hearts like to Thine.

Let us pray;
Almighty and eternal God, look upon the Heart of Thy most
beloved Son and upon the praises and satisfaction which He
offers Thee in the name of sinners; and to those who implore
Thy mercy, in Thy great goodness, grant forgiveness in the
name of the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, who livest and
reignest with Thee forever and ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
The Precious Blood
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

           ----Deus, qui Unigenite Filii tui passione----
           ----O God, Who by the Passion of Thine Only-
begotten Son

Deus, qui Unigenite Filii tui passione, et per quinque Vulnera
eius Sanguinis effusione humanam naturam peccato perditam
reparasti; tribue nobis, quaesumus, ut qui ab eo suscepta
Vulnera veneramur in terris, eiusdem pretiosissimi Sanguinis
fructum consequi mereamur in caelis. Per eumdem Christum
Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O God, who by the Passion of Thine only-begotten Son, and by
the shedding of His precious Blood through His five Wounds,
didst restore human nature when it was lost by sin; grant us,
we beseech Thee, that we who venerate on earth the Wounds
suffered by Him, may be found worthy to obtain in heaven the
fruits of that same Most Precious Blood. Through the same
Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


              ----Salvete, Christi vulnera----
              ----Hail, Holy Wounds of Jesus----

Salvete, Christi vulnera,
Immensi amoris pignora,
Quibus perennes rivuli
Manant rubentis sanguinis.
Nitore stellas vincitis,
Rosas odore et balsama,
Pretio lapillos Indicos,
Mellis favos dulcedine.
Per vos patet gratissimum
Nostris asylum mentibus;
Non huc furor minantium
Unquam penetrat hostium.
Quot Iesus in praetorio
Flagella nudus excipit!
Quot scissa pellis undique
Stillat cruoris guttulas!
Fontem venustam, proh dolor!
Corona pugnit spinea,
Clavi retusa cuspide
Pedes manusque perforant.
Postquam sed ille tradidit
Amans volensque spiritum,
Pectus feritur lancea,
Geminusque liquor exsilit.
Ut plena sit redemptio,
Sub torculari stringitur,
Suique Iesus immemor,
Sibi nil reservat sanguinis.
Venite, quotquot criminum
Funesta labes inficit:
In hoc salutis balneo
Qui se levat, mundabitur.
Summi ad Parentis dexteram
Sedenti habenda est gratia,
Qui nos redemit sanguine,
Sanctoque firmat Spiritu. Amen.
     ---------------------


Hail, Holy Wounds of Jesus, hail!
Sweet pledges of the saving Rood!
Whence flow the streams that never fail-
The purple streams of His dear Blood.
Brighter that the brightest stars ye show,
Than sweetest rose your scent more rare,
No Indian gem may match your glow,
No honey's taste with yours compare.
Portals are ye to that dear Home,
Wherein our wearied souls may hide,
Whereto no angry foe can come,
The heart of Jesus Crucified.
What countless stripes our Jesus bore,
All naked left in Pilate's hall,
What copious floods of purple gore
Through rents in His torn garments fall.
His comely brow, O shame and grief,
By the sharp, thorny crown is riven,
Through hands and feet, without relief
The cruel nails are deeply driven.
But when for our poor sakes He died,
A willing Priest, by love subdued,
The soldier's spear transfixed His side-
Forth flowed the water and the blood.
Beneath the winepress of God's wrath,
To save our souls from endless pains,
Still hour by hour His Blood pours forth
Till not a single drop remains.
Come, bathe you in that healing flood,
All ye who mourn with sin opprest,
Your only hope in Jesus' Blood,
His Sacred Heart your only rest.
All praise to Him, the eternal Son,
At God's right hand enthroned above,
Whose Blood the world's redemption won,
Whose Spirit seals the gifts of love. Amen.
(Tr. H. N. Oxenham)
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Holy Name
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                ----Litania Sanctissimi Nominis Iesu----
                ----Litany of the Most Holy Name of Jesus----

The Litany of the Most Holy Name of Jesus was likely composed
in the 15th century by St. John Capistrano (1386-1456) and by
St. Bernadine of Siena (1380-1444) who preached extensively on
the devotion to the Name of Jesus. The Litany was approved for
private usage by Pope Sixtus V in 1585. The present form was
approved by Pope Pius IX for local usage in 1862 and then in
1866 Pope Leo XIII approved it for public use in the Universal
Church. A partial indulgence is attached to this prayer.

Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison.
Christe, eleison
Christe, eleison.
Kyrie, eleison
Kyrie, eleison.
Iesu, audi nos                                           Iesu,
audi nos.
Iesu, exaudi nos.                                      Iesu,
exaudi nos.
Pater de caelis, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Fili, Redemptor mundi, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Spiritus Sancte, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Sancta Trinitas, unus Deus,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, Fili Dei vivi,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, splendor Patris,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, candor lucis aeternae,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, rex gloriae,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, sol iustitiae,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, Fili Mariae Virginis,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, amabilis,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, admirabilis,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, Deus fortis,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, pater fururi saeculi,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, magni consilii angele,
miserere nobis.
Iesu potentissime,
miserere nobis.
Iesu patientissime,
miserere nobis.
Iesu obedientissime,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, mitis et humilis corde,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, amator castitatis,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, amator noster,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, Deus pacis,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, auctor vitae,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, exemplar virtutum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, zelator animarum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, Deus noster,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, refugium nostrum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, pater pauperum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, thesaure fidelium,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, bone pastor,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, lux vera,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, sapientia aeternae,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, bonitas infinita,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, via et vita nostra,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, gaudium Angelorum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, rex Patriarcharum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, magister Apostolorum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, doctor Evangelistarum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, fortitudo Martyrum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, lumen Confessorum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, puritas Virginum,
miserere nobis.
Iesu, corona Sanctorum omnium,
miserere nobis.
Propitius esto,                                       parce
nobis, Iesu.
Propitius esto,                                        exaudi
nos, Iesu.
Ab omni malo,                                          libera
nos, Iesu.
Ab omni peccato,                                       libera
nos, Iesu.
Ab ira tua,                                            libera
nos, Iesu.
Ab insidias diaboli,                                   libera
nos, Iesu.
A spiritu fornicationis,                               libera
nos, Iesu.
A morte perpetua,                                      libera
nos, Iesu.
A neglectu inspirationeum tuarum,                      libera
nos, Iesu.
Per mysterium sanctae Incarnationis tuae,              libera
nos, Iesu.
Per nativitatem tuam,                                  libera
nos, Iesu.
Per infantiam tuam,                                    libera
nos, Iesu.
Per divinissimam vitam tuam,                           libera
nos, Iesu.
Per labores tuos,                                      libera
nos, Iesu.
Per agoniam et passionem tuam,                         libera
nos, Iesu.
Per crucem et derelictionem tuam,                      libera
nos, Iesu.
Per languores tuos,                                    libera
nos, Iesu.
Per mortem et sepulturam tuam,                         libera
nos, Iesu.
Per resurrectionem tuam,                               libera
nos, Iesu.
Per ascensionem tuam,                                  libera
nos, Iesu.
Per sanctissimae Eucharistiae institutionem tuam,      libera
nos, Iesu.
Per gaudia tua,                                        libera
nos, Iesu.
Per gloriam tuam,                                      libera
nos, Iesu.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,                parce
nobis, Domine.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,                   exaudi
nos, Iesu.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,               miserere
nobis, Iesu.
Iesu,
audi nos.
Iesu,
exaudi nos.

Oremus;
Domine Iesu Christe, qui dixisti: Petite et accipietis;
quaerite et invenietis; pulsate et aperietur vobis; quaesumus,
da nobis petentibus divinissimi tui amoris affectum, ut te tot
corde, ore et opere diligamus et a tua nunquam laude cessemus.

Sancti Nominis tui, Domine, timorem pariter et amorem fac nos
habere perpetuum, quia numquam tua gubernatione destituis,
quos in soliditate, tuae dilectionis instituis: Qui vivis et
regnas in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------


Lord, have mercy                                       Lord,
have mercy.
Christ, have mercy                                   Christ,
have mercy.
Lord, have mercy                                       Lord,
have mercy.
Jesus, hear us
Jesus, hear us.
Jesus, graciously hear us.                    Jesus,
graciously hear us.
God, the Father of Heaven,                             have
mercy on us.
God, the Son, Redeemer of the world,                   have
mercy on us.
God, the Holy Spirit,                                  have
mercy on us.
Holy Trinity, one God,                                 have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Son of the living God,                          have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Splendor of the Father,                         have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Brightness of eternal Light,                    have
mercy on us.
Jesus, King of Glory,                                  have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Sun of Justice,                                 have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Son of the Virgin Mary,                         have
mercy on us.
Jesus, most amiable,                                   have
mercy on us.
Jesus, most admirable,                                 have
mercy on us.
Jesus, the mighty God,                                 have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Father of the world to come,                    have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Angel of Great Council,                         have
mercy on us.
Jesus, most powerful,                                  have
mercy on us.
Jesus, most patient,                                   have
mercy on us.
Jesus, most obedient,                                  have
mercy on us.
Jesus, meek and humble of heart,                       have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Lover of Chastity,                              have
mercy on us.
Jesus, our Lover,                                      have
mercy on us.
Jesus, God of Peace,                                   have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Author of Life,                                 have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Model of Virtue,                                have
mercy on us.
Jesus, zealous for souls,                              have
mercy on us.
Jesus, our God,                                        have
mercy on us.
Jesus, our Refuge,                                     have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Father of the Poor,                             have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Treasure of the Faithful,                       have
mercy on us.
Jesus, good Shepherd,                                  have
mercy on us.
Jesus, true Light,                                     have
mercy on us.
Jesus, eternal Wisdom,                                 have
mercy on us.
Jesus, infinite Goodness,                              have
mercy on us.
Jesus, our Way and our Life,                           have
mercy on us.
Jesus, joy of the Angels,                              have
mercy on us.
Jesus, King of the Patriarchs,                         have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Master of the Apostles,                         have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Teacher of the Evangelists,                     have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Strength of Martyrs,                            have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Light of Confessors,                            have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Purity of Virgins,                              have
mercy on us.
Jesus, Crown of all Saints,                            have
mercy on us.
Be merciful,                                           spare
us O Jesus.
Be merciful,                                graciously hear
us, O Jesus.
>From all evil,                                     deliver
us, O Jesus.
>From all sin,                                      deliver
us, O Jesus.
>From Thy wrath,                                    deliver
us, O Jesus.
>From the snares of the devil,                      deliver
us, O Jesus.
>From the spirit of fornication,                    deliver
us, O Jesus.
>From everlasting death,                            deliver
us, O Jesus.
>From the neglect of Thy inspirations,              deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through the mystery of Thy holy Incarnation,        deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Nativity,                               deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Infancy,                                deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy most divine Life,                       deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Labors,                                 deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Agony and Passion,                      deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Cross and Dereliction,                  deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Sufferings,                             deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Death and Burial,                       deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Resurrection,                           deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Ascension,                              deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Institution of the Most Holy Eucharist, deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Joys,                                   deliver
us, O Jesus.
Through Thy Glory,                                  deliver
us, O Jesus.
Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world,   spare
us, O Jesus.
Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world,
                                            graciously hear
us, O Jesus.
Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world,
                                              have mercy on
us, O Jesus.
Jesus hear us.                                Jesus,
graciously hear us.

Let us pray;
O Lord Jesus Christ, Thou hast said, "Ask and you shall
receive; seek and you shall find; knock, and it shall be
opened to you"; mercifully attend to our supplications, and
grant us the grace of Thy most divine love, that we may love
Thee with all our hearts, and in all our words and actions,
and never cease to praise Thee.

Make us, O Lord, to have a perpetual fear and love of Thy holy
name, for Thou never failest to govern those who Thou dost
solidly establish in Thy love. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----O bone Iesu----
                         ----O Good Jesu----

O bone Iesu, secundum magnam misericordiam tuam miserere mei.
O clementissime Iesu, te deprecor per illum Sanguinem
pretiosum, quem pro peccatoribus effundere voluisti, ut abluas
omnes iniquitates meas et in me respicias miserum et indignum
invocantem tuum sanctum Nomen. Ergo, Iesu, propter Nomen
sanctum tuum salva me.
                         ---------------------

O good Jesu, according to Thy great mercy, have mercy on me. O
most merciful Jesu, by that Precious Blood which Thou didst
will to shed for sinners, I beseech Thee to wash away all mine
iniquities and to look graciously upon me, a poor and unworthy
sinner, as I call upon Thy holy Name. Therefore, O Jesus, do
Thou save me for Thy holy Name's sake.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
God the Holy Spirit
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                         ----Concede, quaesumus----
                         ----Grant, we beseech Thee----

>From the Roman Missal

Concede, quaesumus, omnipotens Deus, sanctum nos Spiritum
votis promereri sedulis, quatenus eius gratia et ab omnibus
liberemur tentationibus, et peccatorum nostrorum indulgentiam
percipere mereamur. Per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Grant, we beseech Thee, Almighty God, that we may so please
Thy Holy Spirit by our earnest entreaties, that we may by His
grace both be freed from all temptations and merit to receive
the forgiveness of our sins. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Veni, Creator Spiritus----
                         ----Come Holy Spirit, Creator Blest--
--

One of the most widely used hymns in the Church, Veni, Creator
Spiritus, is attributed to Rabanus Maurus (776-856). It is
used at Vespers, Pentecost, Dedication of a Church,
Confirmation, and Holy Orders and whenever the Holy Spirit is
solemnly invoked. A partial indulgence is granted to the
faithful who recite it. A plenary indulgence is granted if it
is recited on January 1st or on the feast of Pentecost.

Veni, Creator Spiritus,
Mentes tuorum visita,
Imple superna gratia
Quae tu creasti pectora.
Qui diceris Paraclitus,
Altissima donum Dei,
Fons vivus, ignis, caritas,
Et spiritalis unctio.
Tu, septiformis munere,
Digitus paternae dexterae,
Tu rite promissum Patris,
Sermone ditans guttura.
Accende lumen sensibus:
Infunde amorem cordibus:
Infirma nostri corporis
Virtute firmans perpeti.
Hostem repellas longius,
Pacemque dones protinus:
Ductore sic te praevio
Vitemus omne noxium.
Per te sciamus da Patrem,
Noscamus atque Filium;
Teque utrisque Spiritum
Credamus omni tempore.
Deo Patri sit gloria,
Et Filio, qui a mortuis
Surrexit, ac Paraclito,
In saeculorum saecula.
Amen.
    ---------------------


Come, Holy Spirit, Creator blest,
And in our souls take up Thy rest;
Come with Thy grace and heavenly aid
To fill the hearts which Thou hast made.
O comforter, to Thee we cry,
O heavenly gift of God Most High,
O fount of life and fire of love,
And sweet anointing from above.
Thou in Thy sevenfold gifts are known;
Thou, finger of God's hand we own;
Thou, promise of the Father, Thou
Who do the tongue with power imbue.
Kindle our sense from above,
And make our hearts o'erflow with love;
With patience firm and virtue high
The weakness of our flesh supply.
Far from us drive the foe we dread,
And grant us Thy peace instead;
So shall we not, with Thee for guide,
Turn from the path of life aside.
Oh, may Thy grace on us bestow
The Father and the Son to know;
And Thee, through endless times confessed,
Of both the eternal Spirit blest.
Now to the Father and the Son,
Who rose from death, be glory given,
With Thou, O Holy Comforter,
Henceforth by all in earth and heaven.
Amen.
>From the Enchridion of Indulgences.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Veni, Sancte Spiritus----
                         ----Come, Holy Spirit----

Veni, Sancte Spiritus is the sequence from the Mass for
Pentecost. It is attributed to Stephen Langton (d 1228),
Archbisop of Canterbury.

Veni, Sancte Spiritus,
Et emitte coelitus
Lucis tuae radium.
Veni, pater pauperum,
Veni, dator munerum
Veni, lumen cordium.
Consolator optime,
Dulcis hospes animae,
Dulce refrigerium.
In labore requies,
In aestu temperies
In fletu solatium.
O lux beatissima,
Reple cordis intima
Tuorum fidelium.
Sine tuo numine,
Nihil est in homine,
Nihil est innoxium.
Lava quod est sordidum,
Riga quod est aridum,
Sana quod est saucium.
Flecte quod est rigidum,
Fove quod est frigidum,
Rege quod est devium.
Da tuis fidelibus,
In te confidentibus,
Sacrum septenarium.
Da virtutis meritum,
Da salutis exitum,
Da perenne gaudium,
Amen, Alleluia.
       ---------------------


Come, Holy Spirit,
Send forth from on high
The radiance of Thy light.
Come, Thou, Father of the poor,
Come, dispenser of all good gifts,
Come, Thou, light of our hearts.
Supreme comforter,
Beloved guest of our soul,
Sweet coolness.
In labor, rest;
In heat, refreshment;
In tears, solace.
O most blessed light,
Fill the inmost places
Of the hearts of Thy faithful.
Without Thy power,
There is nothing in man,
Nothing is harmless.
Wash what is soiled,
Water what is arid,
Heal what is wounded.
Bend what is rigid,
Warm what is cold,
Rule what is wandering.
Give to Thy faithful,
Hoping in Thee,
The Holy sevenfold gift.
Give the reward of virtue,
Give forth salvation,
Give perennial joy.
Amen. Alleluia.    (t. cento)
            --------------------------------------------------
----

                         ----Veni, Sancte Spiritus----
                         ----Come, Holy Spirit----

A traditional prayer asking for the Holy Spirit.

Veni, Sancte Spiritus, reple tuorum corda fidelium, et tui
amoris in eis accende. Emitte Spiritum tuum et creabuntur, et
renovabis faciem terrae. Amen.

Oremus: Deus, qui corda fidelium Sancti Spiritus illustatione
docuisti. Da nobis in eodem Spiritu recta sapere, et de euis
semper consolatione gaudere. Per Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of Thy faithful and kindle
in them the fire of Thy love. Send forth Thy Spirit and the
shall be created and thou shalt renew the face of the earth.
Amen.

Let us pray: O God, Who taught the hearts of the faithful by
the light of the Holy Spirit, grant that, by the gift of the
same Spirit, we may be always truly wise, and ever rejoice in
His consolation. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                ----Veni, Sancte Spiritus----
                ----Come, O Holy Spirit----

This prayer is taken from On Revelation and Trials by St. Mary
Magdalene de Pazzi (1566-1607). It appears in the readings for
Matins on her feast day, May 25.

Veni, Sancte Spiritus. Veniat unio Patris, beneplacitum Verbi.
Tu, Spiritus veritatis, es praemium sanctorum, refrigerium
animarum, lux tenebrarum, pauperum divitiae, amantium
thesaurus, esurientium satietas, consolatio peregrinorum; tu
denique ille es, in quo omnes thesauri continentur.

Veni, qui descendens in Mariam fecisti, ut, carnem sumeret
Verbum, atque in nobis operare per gratiam quod in illa es per
gratiam naturamque operatus.

Veni, qui es omnis castae cogitationis alimentum, fons omnis
clementiae, omnis puritatis cumulus.

Veni et in nobis absume quicquid impedit ne nos absumamur in
te. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Come, O Holy Spirit. Let this pearl of the Father and delight
of the Son come. O Spirit of truth, Thou art the reward of the
saints, refreshment of souls, light in the darkness, riches of
the poor, treasure of lovers, feeder of the hungry, and
comfort of  wayfarers; indeed Thou art the one in whom all
treasures are contained.

Come, Thou who came to Mary so the Word might become flesh and
also work in us through grace as Thou worked in her through
grace and nature.

Come, Thou who art nourishment of every chaste thought, font
of all mercy, and sum total of all purity.

Come and consume in us whatever impedes us from being consumed
in Thee. Amen.

>From the Liturgia Horarum, tr. MWM.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Confession
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                         ----Actus reparationis----
                         ----Act of Reparation----

A partial indulgence is granted to those who recite this
prayer. A plenary indulgence is granted if it is publicly
recited on the feast of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus. This
prayer was prescribed to be recited on this feast by Pope Pius
XI

Iesu dulcissime, cuius effusa in homines caritas, tanta
oblivione, negligentia, comtemptione, ingratissime rependitur,
en nos, ante altaria tua provoluti, tam nefariam hominum
socordiam iniuriasque, quibus undique amantissimum Cor tuum
afficitur, peculiari honore resarcire contendimus.

Attamen, memores tantae nos quoque indignitatis non expertes
aliquando fuisse, indeque vehementissimo dolore commoti, tuam
in primis misericordiam nobis imploramus, paratis, voluntaria
expiatione compensare flagitia non modo quae ipsi patravimus,
sed etiam illorum, qui, longe a salutis via aberrantes, vel te
pastorem ducemque sectari detrectant, in sua infidelitate
obstinati, vel baptismatis promissa conculcantes, suavissimum
tuae legis iugum excusserunt.

Quae deploranda crimina, cum universa expiare contendimus, tum
nobis singula resarcienda proponimus: vitae cultusque
immodestiam atque turpitudines, tot corruptelae pedicas
innocentium animis instructas, dies festos violatos,
exsecranda in te tuosque Sanctos iactata maledicta atque in
tuum Vicarium ordinemque sacerdotalem convicia irrogata, ipsum
denique amoris divini Sacramentum, vel neglectum vel horrendis
sacrilegiis profanatum, publica postremo nationum delicta,
quae Ecclesiae a te institutae iuribus magisterioque
reluctantur.

Quae utinam crimina sanguine ipsi nostro eluere possemus!
Interea ad violatum divinum honorem resarciendum, quam Tu olim
Patri in Cruce satisfactionem obtulisti quamque quotidie in
altaribus renovare pergis, hanc eamdem nos tibi praestamus,
cum Virginis Matris, omnium Sanctorum, piorum quoque fidelium
expiationibus coniunctam, ex animo spondentes, cum praeterita
nostra aliorumque peccata ac tanti amoris incuriam firma fide,
candidis vitae moribus, perfecta legis evangelicae, caritatis
potissimum, observantia, quantum in nobis erit, gratia tua
favente, nos esse compensaturos, tum iniurias tibi inferendas
pro viribus prohibituros, et quam plurimos potuerimus ad tui
sequelam convocaturos. Excipias, quaesumus, benignissime Iesu,
beata Virgine Maria Reparatrice intercedente, voluntarium
huius expiationis obsequium nosque in officio tuique servito
fidissimos ad mortem usque velis, magno illo perseverantiae
munere, continere, ut ad illam tandem patriam perveniamus
omnes, ubi Tu cum!
 Patre et Spiritu Sancto vivis et
regnas in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Most sweet Jesus, whose overflowing charity for men is
requited by so much forgetfulness, negligence and contempt,
behold us prostrate before you, eager to repair by a special
act of homage the cruel indifference and injuries to which
your loving Heart is everywhere subject.

Mindful, alas! that we ourselves have had a share in such
great indignities, which we now deplore from the depths of our
hearts, we humbly ask your pardon and declare our readiness to
atone by voluntary expiation, not only for our own personal
offenses, but also for the sins of those, who, straying far
from the path of salvation, refuse in their obstinate
infidelity to follow you, their!Shepherd and Leader, or,
renouncing the promises of their baptism, have cast off the
sweet yoke of your law.

We are now resolved to expiate each and every deplorable
outrage committed against you; we are now determined to make
amends for the manifold offenses against Christian modesty in
unbecoming dress and behavior, for all the foul seductions
laid to ensnare the feet of the innocent, for the frequent
violations of Sundays and holydays, and the shocking
blasphemies uttered against you and Your Saints. We wish also
to make amends for the insults to which your Vicar on earth
and your priests are subjected, for the profanation, by
conscious neglect or terrible acts of sacrilege, of the very
crimes of nations who resist the rights and teaching authority
of the Church which you have founded.

Would that we were able to wash away such abominations with
our blood. We now offer, in reparation for these violations of
your divine honor, the satisfaction you once made to your
Eternal Father on the cross and which you continue to renew
daily on our altars; we offer it in union with the acts of
atonement of your Virgin Mother and all the Saints and of the
pious faithful on earth; and we sincerely promise to make
recompense, as far as we can with the help of your grace, for
all neglect of your great love and for the sins we and others
have committed in the past. Henceforth, we will live a life of
unswerving faith, of purity of conduct, of perfect observance
of the precepts of the Gospel and especially that of charity.
We promise to the best of our power to prevent others from
offending you and to bring as many as possible to follow you.

O loving Jesus, through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin
Mother, our model in reparation, deign to receive the
voluntary offering we make of this act or expiation; and by
the crowning gift of perseverance keep us faithful unto death
in our duty and the allegiance we owe to you, so that we may
all one day come to that happy home, where with the Father and
the Holy Spirit you live and reign, God, forever and ever.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Attende Domine----
                         ----Hearken, O Lord----

Mozarabic 10th Century Hymn of Praise

R: Attende Domine, et miserere, quia pecavimus tibi.

Ad te Rex summe, omnium redemptor, oculos nostros sublevamus
flentes: exaudi, Christe, supplicantum preces. R

Dextera Patris, lapis angularis, via salutis, ianua caelestis,
ablue nostri maculas delicti. R

Rogamus, Deus, tuam maiestatem: auribus sacris gemitus exaudi:
crimina nostra placidus indulge. R

Tibi fatemur crimina admissa: contrito corde pandimus occulta:
tua Redemptor, pietas ignoscat. R

Innocens captus, nec repugnans ductus, testibus falsis pro
impiis damnatus: quos redemisti, tu conserva, Christe. R
                         ---------------------

R: Hearken, O Lord, and have mercy, for we have sinned against
Thee.

Crying, we raise our eyes to Thee, Sovereign King, Redeemer of
all. Listen, Christ, to the pleas of the supplicant sinners. R

Thou art at the Right Hand of God the Father, the Keystone,
the Way of salvation and Gate of Heaven, cleanse the stains of
our sins. R

O God, we beseech Thy majesty to hear our groans; to forgive
our sins. R

We confess to Thee our consented sins; we declare our hidden
sins with contrite heart; in Thy mercy, O Redeemer, forgive
them. R

Thou wert captured, being innocent; brought about without
resistance, condemned by impious men with false witnesses. O
Christ keep safe those whom Thou hast redeemed. R
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----De Profundis----;
                         ----Out of the Depths----

De Profundis is Psalm 129 (Psalm 130 NAB) of the Vulgate. It
is one of the seven penitential Psalms (6, 32, 38, 51, 102,
130, 143 NAB). It has been used from antiquity as a
penitential Psalm and for the commemoration of the dead. It is
recited in the Office of the Dead, during Vespers (4th Sunday)
and Compline (Wednesday). A partial indulgence is granted to
those who recite it.


De profundis clamavi, ad te Domine;
Domine, exaudi vocem meam.
Fiant aures tuae intendentes
In vocem deprecationis meae.
Si iniquitates observaveris, Domine,
Domine, quis sustinebit?
Quia apud te propitiatio est;
Et propter legem tuam sustinui te, Domine.
Sustinuit anima mea in verbo eius;
Speravit anima mea in Domino.
A custodia matutina usque ad noctem,
Speret Israel in Domino;
Quia apud Dominum misericordia,
Et copiosa apud eum redemptio.
Et ipse redimet Israel
Ex omnibus iniquitatibus eius.
       ---------------------

Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord;
Lord, hear my voice!
Let Your ears be attentive
to the voice of my supplication:
If You, O Lord, mark iniquities,
Lord, who can stand?
But with You is forgiveness,
that You may be revered.
I trust in the Lord;
my soul trusts in His word.
My soul waits for the Lord,
more than sentinels wait for the dawn.
More than sentinels wait for the dawn,
let Israel wait for the Lord;
For with the Lord is kindness
and with Him is plenteous redemption;
And He will redeem Israel
from all their iniquities.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Libera me----
                         ----Deliver me, Lord Jesus Christ----

>From the Roman Missal.

Libera me, Domine, Iesu Christe, ab omnibus iniquitatis meis
et universis malis, fac me tuis semper inhaerere mandatis et a
te numquam separari permittas. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Deliver me, Lord Jesus Christ, from all my iniquities and from
every evil, make me ever hold fast to Thy commandments and
never allow me to be separated from Thee. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Miserere----
                         ----Psalm 50----

The Miserere is Psalm 50 in the Vulgate (Psalm 51 NAB) and is
the fourth and chief penetential psalm. It is one of the most
common prayers for mercy in the liturgy. It is recited every
Friday at Lauds. A partial indulgence is granted to those who
recite it with a penitential heart.

Miserere mei, Deus, secundum magnam misericordiam tuam;
et secundum multitudinem miserationum tuarum: dele iniquitatem
meam.
Amplius lava me ab iniquitate mea
et a peccato meo munda me.
Quoniam iniquitatem meam ego cognosco,
et peccatum meum contra me est semper.
Tibi, soli peccavi et malum coram te feci,
ut iustificeris in sermonibus tuis,
et vincas cum iudicaris.
Ecce enim in iniquitatibus conceptus sum,
et in peccatis concepit me mater mea.
Ecce enim veritatem dilexisti;
incerta et occulta sapientiae tuae manifestasti mihi.
Asparges me hysopo, et mundabor;
lavabis me, et super nivem dealbabor.
Auditui meo dabis gaudium et laetitiam,
et exultabunt ossa humiliata.
Averte faciem tuam a peccatis meis,
et omnes iniquitates meas dele.
Cor mundum crea in me, Deus,
et spiritum rectum innova in visceribus meis.
Ne proicias me a facie tua,
et spiritum sanctum tuum ne auferas a me.
Redde mihi laetitiam salutaris tui,
et spiritu principali confirma me.
Docebo iniquos vias tuas,
et impii ad te convertentur.
Libera me de sanguinibus, Deus, Deus salutis meae,
et  exultabit lingua mea iustitiam tuam.
Domine labia mea aperies,
et os meum adnuntiabit laudem tuam.
Quoniam si voluisses sacrificium, dedissem utique;
holocaustis non delectaberis.
Sacrificium Deo spiritus contribulatus,
cor contritum et humiliatum, Deus, non despicies.
Benigne fac, Domine, in bona voluntate tua Sion,
ut aedificentur muri Ierusalem.
Tunc acceptabis sacrificium iustitiae, oblationes et
holocausta;
tunc inponent super altare tuum vitulos.
                         ---------------------


Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy great mercy
And according to the multitude of Thy tender mercies: blot out
my iniquity.
Wash me more yet from my iniquity;
and of my sin cleanse me.
For I acknowledge my iniquity,
and my sin is always before me.
Against Thee only have I sinned,
and done evil in Thy sight,
that Thou mayest be justified in Thy words,
and mayest overcome when Thou art judged.
For behold, I was conceived in sin,
and in sin my mother conceived me;
For behold, THou hast loved truth,
the uncertain and hidden things of Thy wisdom Thou hast
manifested unto me
THou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed,
Thou shalt wash me, and I shall be made whiter than snow.
THou shalt make me hear of joy and gladness,
and the bones that were humbled shall rejoice.
Turn away Thy face from my sins,
and blot out all my iniquities.
Create in me a clean heart, O God,
and renew a steadfast spirit within me.
Cast me not out from Thy presence,
and take not Thy holy spirit from me.
Restore unto me the joy of Thy salvation,
and strenghten me with a perfect spirit.
I will teach the unjust Thy ways,
and the wicked shall be converted unto Thee.
Deliver me from blood guilt, O God, THou God of my salvation,
and my tongue shall extol Thy justice.
THou shalt open my lips, O Lord,
and my mouth shall declare Thy praise.
For if Thou hadst desired sacrifice,
I would surely have given it, with burnt offering THou wilt
not be delighted.
The sacrifice of God is an afflicted spirit,
a contrite and humbled heart, O God, Thou wilt not despise.
Deal favorably, O Lord, in Thy good will with Sion
that the walls of Jerusalem may be built up.
Then shalt Thou accept the sacrifice of justice, oblations and
whole burnt offerings,
then shall they lay  calves upon Thine altars.

Latin from Jerome's Vulgate, English from Douay Rheims
(mostly).
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Prex Manasse----
                         ----The Prayer of Manasseh----

The Prayer of Manasseh was originally part of Jerome's
Vulgate. After the Council of Trent, however, it was placed in
the Appendix as a part of the Apocrypha. Written sometime in
the first 2 centuries BC, the Prayer of Manasseh is a classic
of penitential devotion. It is associated with the wicked king
of Judah, Manasseh who composed a prayer in exile asking for
forgiveness of his many sins. (2Chr33:13)

Domine Deus omnipotens patrum nostrorum Abraham et Isaac et
Iacob et semini eorum iusto;

qui fecisti caelum et terram cum omni ornatu eorum;

qui signasti mare verbo praecepti tui, qui conclusisti abyssum
et signasti eam terribili et laudabili nomine tuo;

quem omnia pavent et tremunt a vultu virtutis tuae,

quia importabilis est magnificentia gloriae tuae et
insustentabilis ira super peccatores comminationis tuae;

inmensa vero et investigabilis misericordia promissionis tuae,

quoniam Tu es Dominus altissimus super omnem terram benignus
longanimis et multum misericors et paenitens super malitias
hominum.

Tu, autem, Domine, secundum bonitatem tuam promisisti
paenitentiam et remissionem iis qui peccaverunt tibi; et
multitudine miserationum tuarum decrevisti poenitentiam
peccatoribus in salutem.

Et, tu, igitur, Domine, Deus iustorum, non posuisti
paenitentiam iustis Abraham et Isaac et Iacob his qui tibi non
peccaverunt, sed posuisti poenitentiam propter me peccatorem.

Quoniam peccavi super numerum harenae maris, multiplicatae
sunt iniquitates meae, Domine, multiplicatae sunt iniquitates
meae! Et non sum dignus intueri et aspicere altitudinem caeli
prae multitudine iniquitatum mearum.

Incurvatus sum multo vinculo ferro, ut non possim attollere
caput meum et non est respiratio mihi, quia excitavi
iracundiam tuam et malum coram te feci statuens abominationes
et multiplicans offensiones.

Et nunc flecto genua cordis mei, precans ad te bonitatem
Domine.

Peccavi ,Domine, peccavi, et iniquitatem meam agnosco.

Quare peto rogans te, Domine, remitte mihi, remitte mihi! Ne
simul perdas me cum iniquitatibus meis neque in aeternum
iratus reserves mala mihi neque damnes me in infima terrae
loca. Quia tu es, Deus, Deus inquam poenitentium,

et in me ostendes omnem bonitatem tuam! Quia indignum salvabis
me secundum magnam misericordiam tuam,

et laudabo te semper omnibus diebus vitae meae. Quoniam te
laudat omnis virtus caelorum et tibi est gloria in saecula
saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O Lord Almighty, God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob,
and of all their righteous seed;

Thou who hast made heaven and earth with all their adornments;

Thou who hast marked the sea with Thy word of command, Thou
who hast confined the deep and marked it with Thy terrible and
glorious name;

at Whom all things quake and tremble before Thy virtuous face,

for unbearable is the magnificence of Thy glory and
overwhelming is the threat of Thy wrath upon sinners;

yet truly boundless and unknowable is the promise of Thy
mercy,

for Thou art the Lord, the Most High over all the earth,
compassionate, long-suffering, and greatly merciful, and
repentant over the evils of men.

Thou, however, O Lord, according to Thy goodness, hast
promised repentance and remission for those who have sinned
against Thee; and in the multitude of Thy mercies Thou hast
appointed repentance for salvation of sinners.

Therefore, Thou, O Lord, God of the just, hast not appointed
repentance for Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who did not sin
against Thee, but Thou hast appointed repentance for me on
account of my sins.

For my sins number more than the grains of sand in the sea, my
sins I have multiplied, O Lord, my sins I have multiplied! I
am not worthy to gaze upon and behold heaven above because of
the multitude of my sins.

I am bowed down by many fetters of iron, so that I cannot lift
my head nor can I breathe, for I have provoked Thy wrath and
done evil in Thy sight, setting up abominations and
multiplying my offenses.

And now I bend on my knee and humble my heart, beseeching Thy
goodness, O Lord.

I have sinned, O Lord, I have sinned, and I acknowledge my
transgressions.

For this reason I beg to ask Thee, O Lord, forgive me, forgive
me! Do not destroy me with my transgressions nor be angry
forever with me nor condemn me to the depths of the inferno.
For I say Thou art, O God, the God of the repentant,

and in me Thou wilt show Thy great goodness! For, unworthy as
I am, Thou wilt save me according to Thy great mercy,

and I will praise Thee always for all of the days of my life.
For all the host of the heavens praise Thee and to Thee be
glory forever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Prayers Before and After Mass
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

            ----Oratio Sancti Ambrosii Ante Missam----
            ----Prayer  of St. Ambrose Before Mass----

Saint Ambrose (340-397) is one of the four great Latin Fathers
and Doctors of the Western Church. He was appointed Bishop of
Milan in 374. He wrote about Scripture, the priesthood, the
faith, and hymnology.


Ad mensam dulcissimi convivii tui, pie Domine Iesu Christe,
ego peccator de propriis meis meritis nihil praesumens, sed de
tua confidens misericordia et bonitate, accedere vereor et
contremisco. Nam cor et corpus habeo multis criminibus
maculatem, mentem et linguam non caute custoditam. Ergo, o pia
Deitas, o tremenda maiestas, ego miser, inter angustias
deprehensus, ad te fontem misericordiae recurro, ad te festino
sanandus, sub tuam protectionem fugio; et quem Iudicem
sustinere nequeo, Salvatorem habere suspiro. Tibi, Domine,
plagas meas ostendo, tibi verecundiam meam detego. Scio
peccata mea multa et magna, pro quibus timeo; spero in
misericordias tuas, quarum non est numerus.Rescipe ergo in me
oculis misercordiae tuae, Domine, Iesu Christe, Rex aeterna,
Deus et homo, crucifixus propter hominem. Exaudi me sperantem
in te; miserere mei pleni miseriis et peccatis, tu qui fontem
miserationis numquam manare cessabis.

Salve, salutaris victima, pro me et omnia humano genere in
patibulo Crucis oblata. Salve, nobilis, et pretiose sanguis,
de vuleribus crucifixi Domini mei Iesu Christi profluens, et
peccata totus mundi abluens.

Recordare, Domine, creaturae tuae, quam tuo Sanguine
redemisti. Paenitet me peccasse, cupio emendare quod feci.
Aufer ergo a me, clementissime Pater, omnes iniquitates et
peccata mea; ut, purificatus mente et corpore, digne degustare
merear Sancta et corpore, digne degustare merear Sancta
sanctorum. Et concede, ut haec sancta praelibatio Corporis et
Sanguinis tui, quam ego indignus sumere intendo, sit
peccatorum meorum remissio, sit delictorum perfecta purgatio,
sit turpium cogitationem effugatio ac bonorum sensuum
regeneratio, operumque tibi placentium salubris efficacia,
animae quoque et corporis contra inimicorum meorum insidias
firmissima tuitio. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Lord Jesus Christ, I approach Thy banquet table in fear and
trembling, for I am a sinner, and dare not rely on my own
worth, but only on Thy goodness and mercy. I am defiled by my
many sins in body and soul, and by my unguarded thoughts and
words.  Gracious God of majesty and awe, I seek Thy
protection, I look for Thy healing.  Poor troubled sinner that
I am, I appeal to Thee, the fountain of all mercy. I cannot
bear Thy judgment, but I trust in Thy salvation. Lord, I show
my wounds to Thee and uncover my shame before Thee. I know my
sins are many and great, and they fill me with fear, but I
hope in Thy mercies, for they cannot be numbered.

Lord Jesus Christ, Eternal King, God and man, crucified for
mankind, look upon me with mercy and hear my prayer, for I
trust in Thee. Have mercy on me, full of sorrow and sin, for
the depth of Thy compassion never ends.

Praise to Thee saving sacrifice, offered on the wood of the
cross for me and for all mankind. Praise to the noble and
precious Blood, flowing from the wounds of my crucified Lord
Jesus Christ and washing away the sins of the whole world.

Remember, Lord, Thy creature, whom Thou hast redeemed with Thy
blood; I repent my sins, and I long to put right what I h`ve
done. Merciful Father, take away all my offenses and sins;
purify me in body and soul, and make me worthy to taste the
holy of holies. May Thy Body and Blood, which I intend to
receive, although I am unworthy, be for me the remission of my
sins, the washing away of my guilt, the end of my evil
thoughts, and the rebirth of my better instincts. May it
incite me to do the works pleasing to Thee and profitable to
my health in body and soul, and be a firm defense against the
wiles of my enemies. Amen.

>From the Roman Missal.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


             ----Oratio Sancti Thomae Aquinatis Ante Missam---
-
             ----Prayer  of St. Thomas Aquinas Before Mass----

Omnipotens sempiterne Deus, ecce accedo ad sacramentum
unigeniti Filii tui, Domini nostri, Iesu Christi; accedo
tamquam infirmus ad medicum vitae, immundus  ad fontem
misericordiae, caecus ad lumen claritatis aeternae, pauper et
egenus ad Dominum caeli et terrae. Rogo ergo immensae
largitatis tuae abundantiam, quatenus meam curare digneris
infirmitatem, lavare foeditatem, illuminare caecitatem, ditare
paupertatem, vestire nuditatem; ut panem Angelorum, Regem et
Dominum dominantium, tanta suscipiam reverentia et humilitate,
tanta contritione et devotione, tanta puritate et fide, tali
proposito et intentione, sicut expedit saluti animae meae. Da
mihi, quaeso, Dominici Corporis et Sanguinis non solum
suscipere sacramentum, sed etiam rem et virtutem sacramenti. O
mitissime Deus, da mihi Corpus unigeniti Filii tui, Domini
nostri, Iesu Christi, quod traxit de Virgine Maria, sic
suscipere, ut corpori suo mystico merear incoporari, et inter
eius membra connumerari. O amantissime Pater, concede mihi
dilectum Filium tuum, quem nunc velatum in via suscipere
propono, revelata tandem facie perpetuo contemplari: Qui tecum
vivit et regnat in unitate Spiritus Sancti, Deus, per omnia
saecula saeculorum. Amen
                         ---------------------

Almighty and ever-living God, I approach the sacrament of Thy
only-begotten Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. I come sick to the
doctor of life, unclean to the fountain of mercy, blind to the
radiance of eternal light, and poor and needy to the Lord of
heaven and earth. Lord, in Thy great generosity, heal my
sickness, wash away my defilement, enlighten my blindness,
enrich my poverty, and clothe my nakedness. May I receive the
bread of angels, the King of kings and the Lord of lords, with
humble reverence, with the purity and faith, the repentance
and love, and the determined purpose that will help to bring
me to salvation. May I receive the sacrament of the Lord's
body and blood, in its reality and power. Kind God, may I
receive the body of Thy only-begotten Son, our Lord Jesus
Christ, born from the womb of the Virgin Mary, and so received
into His mystical body, and numbered among His members. Loving
Father, as on my earthly pilgrimage I now receive Thy beloved
Son under the veil of a sacrament, may I one day see Him face
to face in glory, who lives and reigns with Thee in the unity
of the Holy Spirit, God,  forever. Amen.

>From the Roman Missal.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


           ----Oratio ad Beatam Mariam Virginem Ante Missam---
-
           ----Prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mary Before Mass -
---

O Mater pietatis et misericordiae, beatissima Virgo Maria, ego
miser et indignus peccator ad te confugio toto corde et
affectu; et precor pietatem tuam, ut, sicut dulcissimo Filio
tuo in Cruce pendenti astitisti, ita et mihi, misero
peccatori, et sacerdotibus omnibus, hic et in tota sancta
Ecclesia hodie offerentibus, clementer adsistere digneris, ut,
tua gratia adiuti, dignam et acceptabilem hostiam in conspectu
summae et individuae Trinitatis offerre valeamus. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Mother of mercy and love, blessed Virgin Mary, I am a poor and
unworthy sinner, and I turn to thee in confidence and love.
Thou stoodst by thy Son as He hung dying on the cross. Stand
also by me, a poor sinner, and by all the priests who are
offering Mass today here and throughout the entire Church.
Help us to offer a perfect and acceptable sacrifice in the
sight of the holy and undivided Trinity, our most high God.
Amen.

>From the Roman Missal. A prayer before communion.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                ----Preces Ad Sanctum Ioseph Ante Missam----
                ----Prayer to St. Joseph Before Mass----

>From the Roman Missal.

O felicem virum, beatum Ioseph, cui datum est Deum, quem multi
reges voluerunt videre et non viderunt, audire et non
audierunt, non solum videre et audire, sed portare,
deosculari, vestire et custodire!

    V  Ora pro nobis, beate Iospeh.
    R  Ut digni efficamur promissionibus Christi.

Deus, qui dedisti nobis regale sacerdotium: praesta,
quaesumus; ut, sicut beatus Ioseph unigenitum Filium tuum,
natum ex Maria Virgine, suis manibus reverenter tractare
meruit et portare, ita nos facias cum cordis munditia et
operis innocentia tuis sanctis altaribus deservire, ut
sacrosanctum Filii tui Corpus et Sanguinem hodie digne
sumamus, et in futuro saeculo praemium habere mereamur
aeternum. Per eundem Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen
                         ---------------------

O Blessed Joseph, happy man, to whom it was given not only to
see and to hear that God Whom many kings longed to see, and
saw not, to hear, and heard not; but also to carry Him in your
arms, to embrace Him, to clothe Him, and guard and defend Him.

V Pray for us, O Blessed Joseph.

R That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ

O God, Who has given us a royal priesthood, we beseech Thee,
that as Blessed Joseph was found worthy to touch with his
hands, and to bear in his arms, Thy only-begotten Son, born of
the Virgin Mary, so may we be made fit, by cleanness of heart
and blamelessness of life, to minister at Thy holy altar; may
we, this day, with reverent devotion partake of the Sacred
Body and Blood of Your Only-begotten Son, and may we in the
world to come be accounted worthy of receiving an everlasting
reward. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


             ----Oratio Ad Omnes Angelos et Sanctos Ante
Missam----
             ----Prayer to All the Angels and Saints Before
Mass----

Angeli, Archangeli, Throni, Dominationes, Principatus,
Potestates, Virtutes caelorum, Cherebim atque Seraphim, omnes
Sancti et Sanctae Dei, praesertim Patroni mei, intercedere
dignemini pro me, ut hoc sacrificium Deo omnipotenti digne
valeam offerre, ad laudem et gloriam nominis sui et ad
utilitatem meam totiusque Ecclesiae suae sanctae. Amen
                         ---------------------

Angels, Archangels, Thrones, Dominations, Principalities,
Powers, heavenly Virtues, Cherubim and Seraphim; all Saints of
God, holy men and women, and for you especially my patrons:
deign to intercede for me that I may be worthy to offer this
Sacrifice to almighty God, to the praise and glory of His
name, for my own welfare and also that of all His holy Church.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


----Oratio Ante Missam ad Sanctum in cuius Honorem Missam
Celebratur----
----Prayer Before Mass to the Saint in Whose Honor the Mass is
Celebrated----

O sancte/sancta N, ecce ego miser peccator, de tuis meritis
confisus, offero nunc sacratissimum sacramentum Corporis et
Sanguinis Domini nostri Iesu Christi pro tuo honore et gloria.
Precor te humiliter et devote, ut pro me hodie intercedere
digneris, ut tantum sacrificium digne et acceptabiliter offere
valeam, ut eum tecum et cum omnibus electis eius aeternaliter
laudare, atque cum eo regnare valeam: Qui vivit et regnat in
saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O Holy N., behold I, a wretched sinner, relying on your
merits, now offer up to your honor and glory the most holy
Sacrament of the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Humbly and devoutly do I beg you to intercede for me this day,
and to plead that I may have grace to offer this great
Sacrifice in a worthy and acceptable fashion and to be able to
sing His praises eternally with you and with all His elect in
heaven. Who lives and reigns forever. Amen.

>From the 1962 Missal.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                 ----Formula Intensionis Ante Missam----
                 ----Statement of Intention----

Composed by Pope Gregory XIII (1572 - 1585), from the Roman
Missal

Ego volo celebrare Missam, et conficere Corpus et Sanguinem
Domini nostri Iesu Christi, iuxta ritum sanctae Romanae
Ecclesiae, ad laudem omnipotentis Dei totiusque Curiae
triumphantis, ad utlitatem meam totiusque Curiae militantis,
pro omnibus, qui se commendaverunt orationibus meis in genere
et in specie, et pro felici statu sanctae Romanae Ecclesiae.

Gaudium cum pace, ememdationem vitae, spatium verae
paenitentiae, gratiam et consolationem Sancti Spiritus,
perseverantiam in bonis operibus, tribuat nobis omnipotens et
misericors Dominus. Amen
                         ---------------------

My purpose is to celebrate Mass and to make present the Body
and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ according to the rite of
the holy Roman Church to the praise of our all-powerful God
and all His assembly in the glory of heaven, for my good and
the good of all His pilgrim Church on earth, and for all who
have asked me to pray for them in general and in particular,
and for the good of the holy Roman Church.

May the almighty and merciful Lord grant us joy and peace,
amendment of life, room for true repentance, the grace and
comfort of the Holy Spirit and perseverance in good works.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                    ----Anima Christi----
                    ----Soul of Christ----

The author or this classic prayer is unknown, although some
attribute it to Blessed Bernadine of Feltre. It was a favorite
of St. Ignatius Loyola (1491-1556) who popularized its usage.
The prayer carries a partial indulgence.

Anima Christi, sanctifica me.
Corpus Christi, salve me.
Sanguis Christi, inebria me.
Aqua lateris Christi, lava me.
Passio Christi, conforta me.
O bone Iesu, exaudi me.
Intra tua vulnera absconde me.
Ne permittas me separari a te.
Ab hoste maligno defende me.
In hora mortis meae voca me.
Et iube me venire ad te,
ut cum Sanctis tuis laudem te
in saecula saeculorum. Amen
         ---------------------


Soul of Christ, sanctify me.
Body of Christ, save me.
Blood of Christ, inebriate me.
Water from the side of Christ, wash me.
Passion of Christ, strengthen me.
O good Jesus, hear me.
Within Your wounds, hide me.
Separated from You let me never be.
>From the malignant enemy, defend me.
At the hour of death, call me.
To come to you, bid me,
That I may praise You in the company
Of Your Saints, for all eternity. Amen.
>From the Roman Missal and Enchiridion.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


              ----Oblatio Sui ----
              ----Prayer of Self-Dedication to Jesus Christ

By St. Ignatius of Loyola (1491 - 1556), founder of the
Jesuits.

Suscipe, Domine, universam meam libertatem. Accipe memoriam,
intellectum atque voluntatem omnem. Quidquid habeo vel
possideo mihi largitus es; id tibi totum restituo, ac tu>
prorsus voluntati trado gubernandum. Amorem tui solum cum
gratia tua mihi dones, et dives sum satis, nec aliud quidquam
ultra posco.  Amen
                         ---------------------

Lord Jesus Christ, take all my freedom, my memory, my
understanding, and my will. All that I have and cherish Thou
hast given me. I surrender it all to be guided by Thy will.
Thy grace and Thy love are wealth enough for me. Give me these
Lord  Jesus and I ask for nothing more. Amen

Roman Missal
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                ----En ego, o bone et dulcissime Iesu----
                ----Prayer Before a Crucifix----

A plenary indulgence is granted to the faithful on any Friday
of Lent or Passiontide who after Communion piously recite the
above prayer before an image of Christ crucified. On other
days of the year the indulgence is partial.

En ego, o bone et dulcissime Iesu, ante conspectum tuum
genibus me provolvo, ac maximo animi ardore te oro atque
obtestor, ut meum in cor vividos fidei, spei et caritatis
sensus, atque veram peccatorum meorum poenitentiam, eaque
emendandi firmissimam voluntatem velis imprimere; dum magno
animi affectu et dolore tua quinque vulnera mecum ipse
considero ac mente contemplor, illud prae oculis habens, quod
iam in ore ponebat tuo David propheta de te, o bono Iesu:
Foderunt manus meas et pedes meos: dinumeraverunt omnia ossa
mea. Amen
                         ---------------------

My good and dear Jesus, I kneel before you, asking most
earnestly to engrave upon my heart a deep and lively faith,
hope and charity, with true repentance for my sins, and a firm
resolve to make amends. As I reflect upon your five wounds,
and dwell upon them with deep compassion and grief, I recall,
good Jesus, the words the prophet David spoke long ago
concerning yourself: they have pierced my hand and feet, they
have counted all my bones  Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


             ----Oratio Sancti Thomae Aquinatis Post Missam---
-
            ----Prayer of St. Thomas Aquinas After Mass----

Gratias tibi ago, Domine, sancte Pater, omnipotens aeterne
Deus, qui me peccatorem, indignum famulum tuum, nullis meis
meritis, sed sola dignatione misericordiae tuae satiare
dignatus es pretioso Corpore et Sanguine Filii tui, Domini
nostri Iesu Christi. Et precor, ut haec sancta communio non
sit mihi reatus ad poenam, sed intercessio salutaris ad
veniam. Sit mihi armatura fidei et scutum bonae voluntatis.
Sit vitiorum meorum evacuatio, concupiscentiae et libidinis
exterminatio, caritatis et patientiae, humilitatis et
obedientiae omniumque virtutem augmentatio: contra insidias
inimicorum omnium, tam visibilum quam invisibilium firma
defensio; motuum meorum, tam carnalium quam spiritualium,
perfecta quietatio: in te uno ac vero Deo firma adhaesio;
atque finis mei felix consummatio. Et precor te, ut ad illud
ineffabile convivium me peccatorum perducere digneris, ubi tu,
cum Filio tuo et Spiritu Sancto. Sanctis tuis es lux vera,
satietas plena, gaudium sempiternum, iucunditas consummata et
felicitas perfecta. Per eundem Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Lord, Father all-powerful, and ever-living God, I thank Thee,
for even though I am a sinner, Thy unprofitable servant, not
because of my worth, but in the kindness of Thy mercy, Thou
hast fed me with the precious Body and Blood of Thy Son, our
Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that this holy communion may not
bring me condemnation and punishment but forgiveness and
salvation. May it be a helmet of faith and a shield of good
will. May it purify me from evil ways and put an end to my
evil passions. May it bring me charity and patience, humility
and obedience, and the growth in power to do good. May it be
my strong defense against all my enemies, visible and
invisible, and the perfect calming of all my evil impulses,
bodily and spiritual. May it unite me more closely to Thee,
the one true God and lead me safely through death to
everlasting happiness with Thee. And I pray that Thou willest
lead me, a sinner to the banquet where Thou with Thy Son and
Holy Spirit, are true and perfect light, total fulfillment,
everlasting joy, gladness without end, and perfect happiness
to Thy saints. Grant this through Christ our Lord. Amen.

>From the Roman Missal.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                 ----Oratio Sancti Bonaventuri----
                 ----Prayer of Saint Bonaventure----

St. Bonaventure (1218-1274) was born in Tuscany and became a
Franciscan. He is regarded as the greatest exponent of
Mystical Theology in the Middle Ages and is known as the
Seraphic Doctor.

Transfige, dulcissime Domine Iesu, medullas et viscera animae
meae suavissimo ac saluberrimo amoris tui vulnere, vera
serenaque et apostolica sanctissima caritate, ut langueat et
liquefiat anima mea solo semper amore et desiderio tui, te
concupiscat et deficiat in atria tua, cupiat dissolvi et esse
tecum.

Da ut anima mea te esuriat, panem Angelorum, refectionem
animarum sanctarum; panem nostrum cotidianum,
supersubstantialem, habentem omnem dulcendinem et saporum, et
omne delectamentum suavitatis. Te, in quem desiderant Angeli
prospicere, semper esuriat et comedat cor meum, et dulcedine
saporis tui repleantur viscera animae meae; te semper sitiat
fontem vitae, fontem sapientiae et scientiae, fontem aeterni
luminis, torentem voluptatis, ubertatem domus Dei.

Te semper ambiat, te quaerat, te inveniat, ad te tendat, ad te
perveniat, te meditetur, te loquatur, et omnia operetur in
laudem et gloriam nominis tui, cum humilitate et discretione,
cum dilectione, et delectatione, cum facilitate et affectu,
cum perseverantia usque in finem; ut tu sis solus semper spes
mea, tota fiducia mea divinitiae meae, delectatio mea,
iucunditas mea, gaudium meum, quies et tranquillitas mea, pax
mea, suavitas mea, odor meus, dulcedo mea, cibus meus,
refectio mea, refugium meum, auxilium meum, sapientia mea,
portio mea, possessio mea, thesaurus meus, in quo fixa et
firma et immobiliter semper sit radicata mens mea et cor meum.
Amen
                         ---------------------

Pierce, O most Sweet Lord Jesus, my inmost soul with the most
joyous and healthful wound of Thy love, with true, serene, and
most holy apostolic charity, that my soul may ever languish
and melt with love and longing for Thee, that it may yearn for
Thee and faint for Thy courts, and long to be dissolved and to
be with Thee.

Grant that my soul may hunger after Thee, the bread of angels,
the refreshment of holy souls, our daily and supersubstantial
bread, having all sweetness and savor and every delight of
taste; let my heart ever hunger after and feed upon Thee, upon
whom the angels desire to look, and may my inmost soul be
filled with the sweetness of Thy savor; may it ever thirst
after Thee, the fountain of life, the fountain of wisdom and
knowledge, the fountain of eternal light, the torrent of
pleasure, the richness of the house of God.

May it ever compass Thee, seek Thee, find Thee, run to Thee,
attain Thee, meditate upon Thee, speak of Thee, and do all
things to the praise and glory of Thy name, with humility and
discretion, with love and delight, with ease and affection,
and with perseverance unto the end; may Thou alone be ever my
hope, my entire assurance, my riches, my delight, my pleasure,
my joy, my rest and tranquillity, my peace, my sweetness, my
fragrance, my sweet savor, my food, my refreshment, my refuge,
my help, my wisdom, my portion, my possession and my treasure,
in whom may my mind and my heart be fixed and firmly rooted
immovably henceforth and for ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Oratio Universalis----
                         ----Universal Prayer----

Written by Pope Clement XI (1721-1724).

Credo Domine, sed credam firmius; spero, sed sperem securius;
amo, sed amem ardentius; doleo, sed doleam vehementius.

Adoro te ut primum principium; desidero ut finem ultimum;
laudo ut benefactorem perpetuum; invoco ut defensorem
propitium.

Tua me sapientia dirige, iustitia contine clementia solare,
potentia protege.

Offero tibi, Domine cogitanda, ut sint ad te; dicenda, ut sint
de te; facienda, ut sint secundum te; ferenda, ut sint proper
te.

Volo quidquid vis, volo quia vis, volo quomodo vis, volo
quamdiu vis.

Oro, Domine; intellectum illumines, voluntatem inflammes, cor
emundes, animam sanctifices.

Defleam praeteritas iniquitates, repellam futuras tentationes,
corrigam vitiosas propensiones, excolam idoneas virtutes.

Tribue mihi, bone Deus, amorem tui, odium mei, zelum proximi,
contemplum mundi. Studeam superibus obedire, inferioribus
subvenire, amicus consulere, inimicis parcere.

Vincam voluptatem austeritate, avaritiam largitate, iracundiam
lenitate, tepiditatem fervore.

Redde me prudentem in consuliis, constantem in periculis,
patientem in adversis, humilem in properis.

Fac, Domine, ut sim in oratione attentus, in epulis sobrius,
in munere sedulus, in proposito firmus.

Curem habere innocentiam interiorem, modestiam exteriorem,
conversationem exemplarem, vitam regularem.

Assidue invigilem naturae domandae, gratiae fovendae legi
servandae , saluti promerendae.

Discam a te quam tenue quod terrenum, quam grande quod
divinum, quam breve quod temporaneum, quam durabile quod
aeternum.

Da mortem praeveniam, iudicium pertimeam, infernum effugiam,
paradisum obtineam.

Per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen
                         ---------------------

Lord, I believe in Thee: increase my faith. I trust in Thee:
strengthen my trust. I love Thee: let me love Thee more and
more. I am sorry for my sins: deepen my sorrow.

I worship Thee as my first beginning, I long for Thee as my
last end, I praise Thee as my constant helper, and call on
Thee as my loving protector.

Guide me by Thy wisdom, correct me with Thy justice, comfort
me with Thy mercy, protect me with Thy power.

I offer Thee, Lord, my thoughts; to be fixed on Thee; my
words: to have Thee for their theme; my actions: to reflect my
love for Thee; my sufferings: to be endured for Thy greater
glory.

I want to do what THou askest of me: in the way Thou askest,
because Thou askest it.

Lord, enlighten my understanding, strengthen my will, purify
my heart, and make me holy.

Help me to repent of my past sins and to resist temptation in
the future. Help me to rise above my human weakness and to
grow stronger as a Christian.

Let me love Thee, my Lord and my God, and see myself as I
really am: a pilgrim in this world, a Christian called to
respect and love all whose lives I touch, those in authority
over me or those under my authority, my friends and my
enemies.

Help me to conquer anger with gentleness, greed by generosity,
apathy by fervor. Help me to forget myself and reach out
toward others.

Make me prudent in planning, courageous in taking risks. Make
me patient in suffering, unassuming in prosperity.

Keep me, Lord, attentive at prayer, temperate in food and
drink, diligent in my work, firm in my good intentions.

Let my conscience be clear, my conduct without fault, my
speech blameless, my life well-ordered.

Put me on guard against my human weaknesses. Let me cherish
Thy love for me, keep Thy law, and come at last to Thy
salvation.

Teach me to realize that this world is passing, that my true
future is happiness of heaven, that life on earth is short,
and the life to come eternal.

Help me to prepare for death with a proper fear of judgment,
but a greater trust in Thy goodness. Lead me safely through
death to the endless joy of heaven.

Grant this though Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


              ----Oratio ad Mariam Virginem Post Missam----
              ----Prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mary After Mass-
---

O Maria, Virgo et Mater sanctissima, ecce suscepi
dilectissimum Filium tuum, quem immaculato utero tuo
concepisti, genuisti, lactasti, atque suavissimis amplexibus
strinxisti. Ecce, cuius aspectu laetabaris et omnibus deliciis
replebaris, illum ipsum tibi humiliter et amanter repraessento
et offero tuis bracchiis constringendum, tuo corde amandum,
sanctissimaeque Trinitati in supremum latriae cultum, pro tui
ipsius honore et gloria et pro meis totiusque mundi
necessitatibus, offerendum. Rogo ergo te, piissima Mater,
impetra mihi veniam omnium peccatorum meorum, uberemque
gratiam ipsi deinceps fidelius serviendi, ac denique gratiam
finalem, ut eum tecum laudare possim per omnia saecula
saeculorum. Amen
                         ---------------------

O Mary, most holy virgin mother, I have received thy Son,
Jesus Christ. With love thou becamest His mother, gave birth
to Him, nursed Him, and helped Him grow to manhood. With love
I return Him to thee, to hold once more, to love with all thy
heart, and to offer to the Holy Trinity as our supreme act of
worship for thy honor and for the good of all thy pilgrim
brothers and sisters. Mother ask God to forgive my sins and to
help me serve Him more faithfully. Keep me true to Christ
until death, and let me come to praise Him with you for ever
and ever. Amen.

>From the Roman Missal.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Placeat----

A traditional prayer offered after Mass.

Placeat tibi, sancta Trinitas, obsequium servitutis meae: et
praesta; ut sacrificium, quod oculis tuae maiestatis indignus
obtuli, tibi sit acceptabile, mihique et omnibus, pro quibus
illud obtuli, sit, te miserante, propitiabile. Per Christum
Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

May the tribute of my humble ministry be pleasing to Thee,
Holy Trinity. Grant that the sacrifice which I, unworthy as I
am, have offered in the presence of Thy majesty may be
acceptable to Thee. Through Thy mercy may it bring forgiveness
to me and to all for whom I have offered it: through Christ
our Lord. Amen.

>From the Roman Missal.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Euchristic Adoration
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                         ----Adoro Te Devote----
                         ----Hidden God----

One of the five beautiful hymns St. Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274)
composed in honor of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament at the
specific request of Pope Urban IV (1261-1264) for the then new
Feast of Corpus Christi in 1264. It is found in the Roman
Missal as a prayer of thanksgiving after Mass. A partial
indulgence is granted to the faithful who devoutly recite this
hymn.

Adoro te devote, latens Deitas,
Quae sub his figuris vere latitas:
Tibi se cor meum totum subiicit,
Quia te contemplans totum deficit.
Visus, tactus, gustus in te fallitur,
Sed auditu solo tuto creditur.
Credo quidquid dixit Dei Filius:
Nil hoc verbo Veritatis verius.
In cruce latebat sola Deitas,
At hic latet simul et humanitas;
Ambo tamen credens atque confitens,
Peto quod petivit latro paenitens.
Plagas, sicut Thomas, non intueor;
Deum tamen meum te confiteor.
Fac me tibi semper magis credere,
In te spem habere, te diligere.
O memoriale mortis Domini!
Panis vivus, vitam praestans homini!
Praesta meae menti de te vivere
Et te illi semper dulce sapere.
Pie pellicane, Iesu Domine,
Me immundum munda tuo sanguine.
Cuius una stilla salvum facere
Totum mundum quit ab omni scelere.
Iesu, quem velatum nunc aspicio,
Oro fiat illud quod tam sitio;
Ut te revelata cernens facie,
Visu sim beatus tuae gloriae.
Amen.
            ---------------------


Hidden God, devoutly I adore You,
Truly present underneath these veils:
All my heart subdues itself before You,
Since it all before You faints and fails.
Not to sight, or taste, or touch be credit,
Hearing only do we trust secure;
I believe, for God the Son has said it-
Word of truth that ever shall endure.
On the cross was veiled Your Godhead's splendor,
Here Your manhood lies hidden too;
Unto both alike my faith I render,
And, as sued the contrite thief, I sue.
Though I look not on Your wounds with Thomas,
You, my Lord, and You, my God, I call:
Make me more and more believe Your promise,
Hope in You, and love You over all.
O memorial of my Savior dying,
Living Bread, that gives life to man;
Make my soul, its life from You supplying,
Taste Your sweetness, as on earth it can.
Deign, O Jesus, Pelican of heaven,
Me, a sinner, in Your Blood to lave,
To a single drop of which is given
All the world from all its sin to save.
Contemplating, Lord, Your hidden presence,
Grant me what I thirst for and implore,
In the revelation of Your essence
To behold Your glory evermore.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Ave Verum----
                         ----Hail True Body Truly Born----

Ave Verum is a short Eucharistic hymn dating from the 14th
century. During the Middle Ages it was sung at the elevation
of the Host during consecration. It also was used frequently
during Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.

Ave verum Corpus natum
De Maria Virgine:
Vere passum, immolatum
In cruce pro homine:
Cuius latus perforatum
Fluxit aqua et sanguine:
Esto nobis praegustatum
Mortis in examine.
O Iesu dulcis!
O Iesu pie!
O Iesu Fili Mariae. Amen.
           ---------------------


Hail, true Body, truly born
Of the Virgin Mary mild
Truly offered, wracked and torn,
On the Cross for all defiled,
>From Whose love pierced, sacred side
Flowed Your true Blood's saving tide:
Be a foretaste sweet to me
In my death's great agony,
O my loving, Gentle One,
Sweetest Jesus,
Mary's Son. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Bone pastor, panis vere----
                         ----Very Bread, good Shepherd----

Bone pastor, panis vere,
Iesu, nostri miserere:
Tu nos pasce, nos tuere:
Tu nos bona fac videre
In terra viventium.
Tu, qui cuncta scis and vales;
Qui nos pascis hic mortales;
Tuos ibi commensales,
Coheredes et sodales
Fac sanctorum civium. Amen.
          ---------------------


Very Bread, good Shepherd, tend us,
Jesu, of Thy love befriend us,
Thou refresh us, Thou defend us,
Thine eternal goodness send us
In the land of life to see.
Thou who all things canst and knowest,
Who on earth such food bestowest,
Grant us with Thy Saints, though lowest,
Where the heavenly feast Thou shewest,
Fellow-heirs and guests to be. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Laudes Divinae----
                         ----Divine Praises----

The Divine Praises are a series of acclamations praising God,
Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit, the Blessed Mother, St. Joseph
and all the angels and saints. It was written originally in
1797 by Luigi Felici, S.J. to make reparations against
blasphemy and profanity. Since then it has been added to by
recent Popes giving us this present form. The Divine Praises
are often used at Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.

Benedictus Deus.
Benedictum Nomen Sanctum eius.
Benedictus Iesus Christus, verus Deus and verus homo.
Benedictum Nomen Iesu
Benedictum Cor eius sacratissimum.
Benedictus Sanguis eius pretiosissimus.
Benedictus Iesus in sanctissimo altaris Sacramento.
Benedictus Sanctus Spiritus, Paraclitus.
Benedicta excelsa Mater Dei, Maria sanctissima.
Benedicta sancta eius et immaculata Conceptio.
Benedicta eius gloriosa Assumptio.
Benedictum nomen Mariae, Virginis et Matris.
Benedictus sanctus Ioseph, eius castissimus Sponsus.
Benedictus Deus in Angelis suis, et in Sanctis suis.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

Blessed be God.
Blessed be His Holy Name.
Blessed be Jesus Christ, true God and true man.
Blessed be the name of Jesus.
Blessed be His Most Sacred Heart.
Blessed be His Most Precious Blood.
Blessed be Jesus in the Most Holy Sacrament of the Altar.
Blessed be the Holy Spirit the Paraclete.
Blessed be the great Mother of God, Mary Most Holy.
Blessed be her holy and Immaculate Conception.
Blessed be her glorious Assumption.
Blessed be the name of Mary, Virgin and Mother.
Blessed be St. Joseph, her most chaste spouse.
Blessed be God in His Angels and in His Saints.
Amen.


                         ----Lauda Sion----
                         ----Laud, O Zion----

When Pope Urban IV (1261-1264) instituted the new Feast of
Corpus Christi he requested St. Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274) to
compose hymns for the feast. This is one of the five beautiful
hymns he composed in honor of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament.
In addition to Lauda Sion, St. Thomas wrote Adoro Te Devote,
Pange Lingua, Sacris Sollemins and Verbum Supernum. Lauda Sion
is the sequence before the Gospel on Corpus Christi.

Lauda Sion Salvatorem,
Lauda ducem et pastorem,
In hymnis et canticis.
Quantum potes, tantum aude:
Quia maior omni laude,
Nec laudare sufficis.
Laudis thema specialis,
Panis vivus et vitalis
Hodie proponitur.
Quem in sacrae mensae coenae,
Turbae fratrum doudenae
Datum non ambigitur.
Sit laus plena, sit sonora,
Sit iucunda, sit decora
Mentis iubilatio.
Dies enim solemnis agitur,
In qua mensae prima recolitur
Huius institutio.
In hac mensa novi Regis,
Novum Pascha novae legis,
Phase vetus terminat.
Vetustatem novitas,
Umbram fugat veritas,
Noctem lux eliminat.
Quod in coena Christus gessit,
Faciendum hoc expressit
In sui memoriam.
Docti sacris institutis,
Panem, vinum in salutis
Consecramus hostiam.
Dogma datur christianis,
Quod in carnem transit panis,
Et vinum in sanguinem.
Quod non bapis, quod non vides,
Animosa firmat fides,
Praeter rerum ordinem.
Sub diversis speciebus,
Signis tantum, et non rebus,
Latent res eximiae.
Caro cibus, sanguis potus:
Manet tamen Christus totus
Sub utraque specie.
A sumente non concisus,
Non confractus, non divisus:
Integer accipitur.
Sumit unus, sumunt mille:
Quantum isti, tantum ille:
Nec sumptus consumitur.
Sumunt boni, sumunt mali:
Sorte tamen inaequali,
Vitae vel interitus.
Mors est malis, vita bonis:
Vide paris sumptionis
Quam sit dispar exitus.
Fracto demum sacramento,
Ne vacilles, sed memento
Tantum esse sub fragmento,
Quantum tot tegitur.
Nulla rei fit scissura:
Signi tantum fit fractura,
Qua nec status, nec statura
Signati minuitur.
Ecce Panis Angelorum,
Factus cibus viatorum:
Vere panis filiorum,
Non mittendus canibus.
In figuris praesignatur,
Cum Isaac immolatur,
Agnus Paschae deputatur,
Datur manna patribus.
Bone pastor, panis vere,
Iesu, nostri miserere:
Tu nos pasce, nos tuere,
Tu nos bona fac videre
In terra viventium.
Tui qui cuncta scis et vales,
Qui nos pascis hic mortales:
Tuos ibi commensales,
Coheredes et sodales
Fac sanctorum civium.
Amen. Alleluia.
                         ---------------------
Zion, to Your Savior sing,
To Your Shepherd and Your King!
Let the air with praises ring!
All you can, proclaim with mirth,
Far higher is His worth
Than the glory words may wing.
Lo! before our eyes and living
Is the Sacred Bread life-giving,
Theme of canticle and hymn.
We profess this Bread from heaven
To the Twelve by Christ was given,
For our faith rest firm in Him.
Let us form a joyful chorus,
May our lauds ascend sonorous,
Bursting from each loving breast.
For we solemnly record
How the Table of the Lord
With the Lamb's own gift was blest.
On this altar of the King
This new Paschal Offering
Brings an end to ancient rite.
Shadows flee that truth may stay,
Oldness to the new gives way,
And the night's darkness to the light.
What at Supper Christ completed
He ordained to be repeated,
In His memory Divine.
Wherefore now, with adoration,
We, the Host of our salvation,
Consecrate from bread and wine.
Words a nature's course derange,
That in Flesh the bread may change
And the wine in Christ's own Blood.
Does it pass your comprehending?
Faith, the law of light transcending,
Leaps to things not understood.
Here beneath these signs are hidden
Priceless things, to sense forbidden;
Signs, not things, are all we see.
Flesh from bread, and Blood from wine,
Yet is Christ in either sign,
All entire confessed to be.
And whoe'er of Him partakes,
Severs not, nor rends, nor breaks:
All entire, their Lord receive.
Whether one or thousand eat,
All receive the selfsame meat,
Nor do less for others leave.
Both the wicked and the good
Eat of this celestial Food:
But with ends how opposite!
With this most substantial Bread,
Unto life or death they're fed,
In a difference infinite.
Nor a single doubt retain,
When they break the Host in twain,
But that in each part remain
What was in the whole before;
For the outward sign alone
May some change have undergone,
While the Signified stays one,
And the same forevermore.
Hail! Bead of the Angels, broken,
For us pilgrims food, and token
Of the promise by Christ spoken,
Children's meat, to dogs denied!
Shown in Isaac's dedication,
In the Manna's preparation,
In the Paschal immolation,
In old types pre-signified.
Jesus, Shepherd mild and meek,
Shield the poor, support the weak;
Help all who Your pardon sue,
Placing all their trust in You:
Fill them with Your healing grace!
Source of all we have or know,
Feed and lead us here below.
Grant that with Your Saints above,
Sitting at the feast of love
We may see You face to face.
Amen. Alleluia.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----O Sacrum Convivium----
                         ----O Sacred Banquet----

O Sacrum Convivium is a traditional prayer honoring the
Blessed Sacrament. What appears below is more than just O
Sacrum Convivium. The prayer has been appended here with a
response and final prayer making it a fit meditation of the
Eucharistic mystery. A partial indulgence is attached to O
Sacrum Convivium.

O sacrum convivium, in quo Christus sumitur: recolitur memoria
passionis eius; mens impletur gratia et furturae gloriae nobis
pignus datur.

V. Panem de caelo praestitisti eis;

R. Omnem delectamentum in se habentem.

Oremus; Deus, qui nobis sub Sacramento mirabili Passionis tuae
memoriam reliquisti; tribue, quaesumus, ita nos Corporis et
Sanguinis tui sacra mysteria venerari, ut redemptionis tuae
fructum in nobis iugiter sentiamus: Qui vivis et regnas in
saecula saeculorum. Amen.

Tempore paschali sequens dicitur oratio;

Oremus; Spiritum nobis, Domine tuae caritatis infunde, ut,
quos Sacramentis paschalibus satiasti, tua facias pietate
concordes. Per Dominum nostrum Iesum Christum Filium tuum, qui
tecum vivit et regnat in unitate eiusdem Spiritus Sancti Deus
per omnia saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O sacred banquet, in which Christ is received, the memory of
His Passion is renewed, the mind is filled with grace, and a
pledge of future glory given to us.

V. Thou didst give them bread from heaven;

R. Containing in itself all sweetness.

Let us pray; O God, who under a wonderful Sacrament hast left
us a memorial of Thy Passion; grant us, we beseech Thee, so to
reverence the sacred mysteries of Thy Body and Blood, that we
may ever feel within ourselves the fruit of Thy Redemption:
Who livest and reignest for ever and ever. Amen.

In Paschaltide the following is said:

Let us pray; Pour upon us, O Lord, the Spirit of Thy love, to
make us of one heart, whom, by Thy tender mercy, Thou hast
filled with the paschal sacrament. Through Our Lord Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, Who with Thee liveth and reigneth in the
unity of the same Holy Spirit, God, for ever and ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----O Salutaris Hostia----
                         ----O Saving Victim----

O Salutaris Hostia is from the last two verses of Verbum
Supernum. one of the five Eucharistic Hymns written by St.
Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274) at the request of Pope Urban IV
(1261-1264) when the Pope first instituted the Feast of Corpus
Christi in 1264. The prayer is still used today, often at
exposition of the Blessed Sacrament.

O salutaris Hostia
Quae coeli pandis ostium.
Bella premunt hostilia;
Da robur, fer auxilium.
Uni trinoque Domino
Sit sempiterna gloria:
Qui vitam sine termino,
Nobis donet in patria.
Amen.
---------------------


O Saving Victim opening wide
The gate of heaven to all below.
Our foes press on from every side;
Thine aid supply, Thy strength bestow.
To Thy great name be endless praise
Immortal Godhead, One in Three;
Oh, grant us endless length of days,
In our true native land with Thee.
Amen.
(tr. E Casawall)
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Pange Lingua----
                         ----Sing, My Tongue----

There are two Pange Linguas in use, one by Venantius
Fortunatus and then this one, by St. Thomas Aquinas (1225-
1274). This is one of the Eucharistic Hymns composed by him
for the Solemnity of Corpus Christi. It is also used on Holy
Thursday and at Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament where the
last two stanzas make up the Tantum Ergo that is used. The
rhythm of the Pange Lingua is said to have come down from a
marching song of Caesar's Legions: "Ecce, Caesar nunc
triumphat qui subgegit Gallias."

Pange lingua gloriosi
Corporis mysterium,
Sanguinisque pretiosi,
Quem in mundi pretium
Fructus ventris generosi
Rex effudit Gentium.
Nobis datus, nobis natus
Ex inacta Virgine,
Et in mundo conversatus,
Sparso verbi semine,
Sui moras incolatus
Miro clausit ordine.
In suprema nocte coenae
Recumbus cum fratribus
Observata lege plene
Cibis in legalibus,
Cibum turbae duodenae
Se dat suis manibus.
Verbum caro, panem verum
Verbo carnem efficit:
Fitque sanguis Christi merum,
Et si sensus deficit,
Ad firmandum cor sincerum
Sola fides sufficit.
Tantum ergo Sacramentum
Veneremur cernui:
Et antiquum documentum
Novo cedat ritui:
Praestet fides supplementum
Sensuum defectui.
Genitori, Genitoque
Laus et jubilatio,
Salus, honor, virtus quoque
Sit et benedictio:
Procedenti ab utroque
Compar sit laudatio.
Amen. Alleluia.
                         ---------------------
Sing, my tongue,
The mystery of the glorious body,
And of the precious Blood,
Shed to save the world,
By the King of the nations,
The fruit of a noble womb.
Given to us, born for us,
>From a stainless Virgin,
And having dwelt in the world,
Sowing the seed of the word,
He closed in a wonderful way,
The days of his habitation.
On the night of His last supper,
Reclining with His brothers,
The law having been fully observed
With legal foods,
He gives Himself as food with His
Own hands to the twelve.
The Word in Flesh makes true Bread
His Flesh with a word;
Wine becomes the Blood of Christ,
And if sense is deficient,
To confirm sincere hearts,
Faith alone suffices.
Then let us prostrate and
Venerate so great a Sacrament,
And let the old law yield
To the new rite;
Let faith stand forward to
Supply the defect of the senses.
To the Begetter and the Begotten,
Be praise and jubilation,
Health, honor, and strength,
And blessing too,
And let equal praise be to Him,
Who proceeds from Both.
Amen. Alleluia.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Sacris Solemniis----
                         ----At This Our Solemn Feast----

This is one of the five beautiful hymns St. Thomas Aquinas
(1225-1274) composed in honor of Jesus in the Blessed
Sacrament at specific request of Pope Urban IV (1261-1264).
Pope Urban IV made the request when he first instituted the
Feast of Corpus Christi in 1264. Today Sacris Solemniis is
used as a hymn at Matins on Corpus Christi. The last two
stanzas are the text for the hymn Panis Angelicus.

Sacris solemniis iuncta sint gaudia,
Et ex praecordiis sonent praeconia;
Recedant vetera, nova sint omnia,
Corda, voces, et opera.
Noctis recolitur cena novissima,
Qua Christus creditur agnum et azyma
Dedisse fratribus, iuxta legitima
Priscis indulta patribus.
Post agnum typicum, expletis epulis,
Corpus Dominicum datum discipulis,
Sic totum omnibus, quod totum singulis,
Eius fatemur manibus.
Dedit fragilibus corporis ferculum,
Dedit et tristibus sanguinis poculum,
Dicens: Accipite quod trado vasculum;
Omnes ex eo bibite.
Sic sacrificium istud instituit,
Cuius officium committi voluit
Solis presbyteris, quibus sic congruit,
Ut sumant, et dent ceteris.
Panis angelicus fit panis hominum;
Dat panis caelicus figuris terminum;
O res mirabilis: manducat Dominum
Pauper, servus et humilis.
Te, trina Deitas unaque, poscimus:
Sic nos tu visita, sicute te colimus;
Per tuas semitas duc nos quo tendimus,
Ad lucem quam inhabitas. Amen.
                         ---------------------
At this our solemn feast
Let holy joys abound,
And from the inmost breast
Let songs of praise resound;
Let ancient rites depart,
And all be new around,
In every act, and voice, and heart.
Remember we that eve,
When, the Last Supper spread,
Christ, as we all believe,
The Lamb, with leavenless bread,
Among His brethren shared,
And thus the Law obeyed,
Of all unto their sire declared.
The typic Lamb consumed,
The legal Feast complete,
The Lord unto the Twelve
His Body gave to eat;
The whole to all, no less
The whole to each did mete
With His own hands, as we confess.
He gave them, weak and frail,
His Flesh, their Food to be;
On them, downcast and sad,
His Blood bestowed He:
And thus to them He spake,
"Receive this Cup from Me,
And all of you of this partake."
So He this Sacrifice
To institute did will,
And charged His priests alone
That office to fulfill:
In them He did confide:
To whom it pertains still
To take, and the rest divide.
Thus Angels' Bread is made
The Living Bread for us today:
The Living Bread from heaven
With figures does away:
O wondrous gift indeed!
The poor and lowly may
Upon their Lord and Master feed.
You, therefore, we implore,
O Godhead, One in Three,
So may You visit us
Who worship You with glee;
And lead us on Your way,
That we at last may see
Where You dwell in Eternal Day.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Tantum Ergo----
                         ----Down in Adoration Falling----

Tantum Ergo is the last two stanzas from the Eucharistic
Prayer (Pange Lingua) composed by St. Thomas Aquinas and is
used at Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. The response and
the prayer at the end is a later addition used at Benediction.
A partial indulgence is granted to the faithful who recite it
and a plenary indulgence is granted to those who recite it on
Holy Thursday or Corpus Christi.

Tantum ergo Sacramentum
Veneremur cernui:
Et antiquum documentum
Novo cedat ritui:
Praestet fides supplementum
Sensuum defectui.
Genitori, Genitoque
Laus et iubilatio,
Salus, honor, virtus quoque
Sit et benedictio:
Procedenti ab utroque
Compar sit laudatio.
Amen.

V. Panem de coelo praestitisti eis. (T.P. Alleluia)
R. Omne delectamentum in se habentem. (T.P. Alleluia)

Oremus: Deus, qui nobis sub sacramento mirabili, passionis
tuae memoriam reliquisti: tribue, quaesumus, ita nos corporis
et sanguinis tui sacra mysteria venerari, ut redemptionis tuae
fructum in nobis iugiter sentiamus. Qui vivis et regnas in
saecula saeculorum.
R. Amen.
                         ---------------------


Down in adoration falling,
Lo! the sacred Host we hail,
Lo! oe'r ancient forms departing
Newer rites of grace prevail;
Faith for all defects supplying,
Where the feeble senses fail.
To the everlasting Father,
And the Son Who reigns on high
With the Holy Spirit proceeding
Forth from each eternally,
Be salvation, honor blessing,
Might and endless majesty.
Amen.

R. Thou hast given them bread from heaven (P.T. Alleluia).
V. Having within it all sweetness (P.T. Alleluia).

Let us pray: O God, who in this wonderful Sacrament left us a
memorial of Thy Passion: grant, we implore Thee, that we may
so venerate the sacred mysteries of Thy Body and Blood, as
always to be conscious of the fruit of Thy Redemption. Thou
who livest and reignest forever and ever.
R. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Verbum Supernum----
                         ----The Word of God----

Verbum Supernum was written by St. Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274)
in honor of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. In addition to
Verbum Supernum, St. Thomas also wrote Adoro Te Devote, Lauda
Sion, Pange Lingua, and Sacris Solemniis at the specific
request of Pope Urban IV (1261-1264) for the then newly
instituted Feast of Corpus Christi in 1264. It is used as a
hymn at Lauds (Morning Prayer) on Corpus Christi. The last two
stanzas are the text for the hymn O Salutaris Hostia.

Verbum supernum prodiens,
Nec Patris linquens dexteram,
Ad opus suum exiens,
Venit ad vitae vesperam.
In mortem a discipulo
Suis tradendus aemulis,
Prius in vitae ferculo
Se tradidit discipulis.
Quibus sub bina specie
Carnem dedit et sanguinem;
Ut duplicis substantiae
Totum cibaret hominem.
Se nascens dedit socium,
Convescens in edulium,
Se moriens in pretium,
Se regnans dat in praemium.
O salutaris hostia,
Quae caeli pandis ostium,
Bella premunt hostilia;
Da robur, fer auxilium.
Uni trinoque Domino
Sit sempiterna gloria:
Qui vitam sine termino
Nobis donet in patria. Amen.
The Word of God proceeding forth,
Yet not leaving the Father's side,
Went forth upon His work on earth
And reached at length life's eventide.
By false disciple to be given
To foemen for His Blood athirst,
Himself, the living Bread from heaven,
He gave to His disciples first.
To them He gave, in twofold kind,
His very Flesh, His very Blood:
Of twofold substance are we made,
And He would freely be our Food.
By birth our fellowman was He,
Our Food while seated at the board;
He died, our ransomer to be;
He ever reigns, our great reward.
O saving Victim, opening wide
The gate of heaven to all us below:
Our foes press on from every side;
Your aid supply, Your strength bestow.
To Your great Name be endless praise,
Immortal Godhead, One in Three!
O grant us endless length of days
With You in our true country. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Daily Prayer Cycle
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Morning Prayer
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


.                         ----Iam Lucis Orto Sidere----
                         ----Star of Light Now Having Risen---
-

Iam lucis orto sidere,
Deum precemur supplices,
Ut in diurnis actibus
Nos servet a nocentibus.
Linguam refraenans temperer,
Ne litis horror insonet,
Visum fovendo contegat,
Ne vanitates hauriat.
Sint pura cordis intima,
Absistat et vecordia:
Carnis terat superbiam
Potus cibique parcitas.
Ut cum dies abcesserit,
Noctemque sors reduxerit,
Mundi per abstinentiam
Ipsi canamus gloriam.
Deo Patri sit gloria,
Eiusque soli Filio,
Cum Spiritu Paraclito,
Nunc et per omne saeculum.
Amen.
      ---------------------


The star of light now having risen,
Let us, suppliants, pray God
That in our daily acts
He may preserve us from harms.
May He temper the tongue,
Lest the horror of quarrel resound,
May He by cherishing, veil our sight
Lest it draw in vanities.
Inmost places of the heart be pure,
May folly stand away,
May scarcity of food and drink,
Wear down the pride of the flesh.
So that when the day is done,
And fate brought back the night,
Clean through abstinence,
We may sing His glory.
To God the Father glory be,
And to His only Son,
With the Spirit Paraclete,
Now and through all of the ages.
Amen.
>From the Breviary.
            --------------------------------------------------
----

                         ----Benedictus----
                         ----Canticle of Zechariah----

The Benedictus, or Canticle of Zechariah, is taken from
Scripture (Luke 1: 68-79) and is the prayer recited by
Zechariah at the birth of John the Baptist. It has been an
important part of the Church's Liturgy from the earliest
times. Today it is part of the hour of Lauds in the Divine
Office.

Benedictus Dominus Deus Israel,
Quia visitavit, et fecit redemptionem plebis suae:
Et erexit cornu salutis nobis
In domo David pueri sui.
Sicut locutus est per os sanctorum,
Qui a saeculo sunt, prophetarum eius
Salutem ex inimicis nostris,
Et de manu omnium qui oderunt nos:
Ad faciendam misericordiam cum patribus nostris:
Et memorari testamenti sui sancti.
Iusiurandum, quod iuravit ad Abraham patrem nostrum,
Daturum se nobis;
Ut sine timore, de manu inimicorum nostrorum liberati,
Serviamus illi.
In sanctitate et iustitia coram ipso,
Omnibus diebus nostris.
Et tu puer, propheta Altissimi vocaberis:
Praeibis enim ante faciem Domini parare vias eius:
Ad dandam scientiam salutis plebi eius:
In remissionem peccatorum eorum:
Per viscera misericordiae Dei nostri:
In quibus visitavit nos, oriens ex alto:
Illuminare his qui in tenebris et in umbra mortis sedent:
Ad dirigendos pedes nostros in viam pacis.
Amen.
                         ---------------------
Blessed be the Lord, God of Israel:
He has come to his people and set them free.
He has raised up for us a mighty Savior,
born of the house of His servant David.
Through His holy Prophets He promised us of old
that He would save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us.
He promised to show mercy to our fathers
and to remember His holy Covenant.
This was the oath He swore to our father Abraham:
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship Him without fear,
holy and righteous in His sight all the days of our life.
You, my child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High;
for you will go before the Lord to prepare His way,
to give His people knowledge of salvation
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of
death,
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Dirigere et sanctificare----
                         ----O Lord God----

This prayer was formerly recited at the office of Prime in the
Liturgy of the Hours. It comes from the early centuries of our
faith.

Dirigere et sanctificare, regere et gubernare dignare, Domine
Deus, Rex caeli et terrae, hodie corda et corpora nostra,
sensus, sermones et actus nostros in lege tua et in operibus
mandatorum tuorum; ut hic et in aeternum, te auxiliante, salvi
et liberi esse mereamur, Salvator mundi: Qui vivis et regnas
in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O Lord God, King of heaven and earth, may it please Thee this
day to order and to hallow, to rule and to govern our hearts
and our bodies, our thoughts, our words and our works,
according to Thy law and in the doing of Thy commandments,
that we, being helped by Thee, may here and hereafter worthily
be saved and delivered by Thee, O Savior of the world, who
livest and reignest for ever and ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Domine Deus omnipotens----
                         ----Lord, God Almighty----

This prayer was formerly recited at Prime in the Liturgy of
the Hours. Today it is found at Lauds. A partial indulgence is
attached to this prayer.

Domine Deus omnipotens, qui ad principium huius diei nos
pervenire fecisti; tua nos hodie salva virtute; ut hac die ad
nullum declinemus peccatum, sed semper ad tuam iustitiam
faciendam nostra procedant eloquia, dirigantur cogitationes et
opera. Per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Lord, God Almighty, Thou hast brought us safely to the
beginning of this day. Defend us today by Thy mighty power,
that we may not fall into any sin, but that all our words may
so proceed and all our thoughts and actions be so directed, as
to be always just in Thy sight. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Into Thy hands----

Written by St. Edmund Rich, Archbishop of Canterbury (1180-
1242)

Into Thy hands, O Lord, into the hands of Thy holy Angels, I
commit and entrust this day my soul, my relations, my
benefactors, my friends and enemies, and all Thy Catholic
people.

Keep us, O Lord, through the day, by the merits and
intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary and all Thy Saints,
from all vicious and unruly desires, from all sins and
temptations of the devil, and from sudden and unprovided death
and the pains of hell.

Illuminate my heart with the grace of Thy Holy Spirit; grant
that I may ever be obedient to Thy commandments; suffer me not
to be separated from Thee, O God, who livest and reignest with
God the Father and the same Holy Spirit for ever and ever.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Mid-Day
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                         ----The Angelus----

Originating in the 13th century, the Angelus has been highly
popular since the 17th century. Pope Callistus III (1455-1458)
commended it as a prayer for protection against the Turkish
invasions of his time. More recently, Pope Paul VI wrote about
it and Pope John Paul II holds a weekly noon time Angelus
address at St. Peter's Square. The Angelus is traditionally
recited kneeling while a bell is rung and at three particular
times during the day; 6 am, 12 noon, and 6 pm.  During Easter
Season the Angelus is replaced by Regina Caeli, a practice
first instituted in 1743. A partial indulgence is granted to
those who devoutly recite it according to the time of the
year.

---Outside the Pascal Season

V. Angelus Domini, nuntiavit Mariae;

R. Et concepit de Spiritu Sancto.

All: Ave Maria, gratia plena, Dominus tecum. Benedicta tu in
mulieribus, et benedictus fructus ventris tui, Iesus. Sancta
Maria, Mater Dei, ora pro nobis peccatoribus, nunc, et in hora
mortis nostrae. Amen.

V. Ecce ancilla Domini.

R. Fiat mihi secundum verbum tuum.

All: Ave Maria, gratia plena,.......

V. Et Verbum caro factum est.

R. Et habitavit in nobis.

All: Ave Maria, gratia plena,.......

V. Ora pro nobis, sancta Dei Genitrix.

R. Ut digni efficiamur promissionibus Christi.

Oremus. Gratiam tuam, quaesumus, Domine, mentibus nostris
infunde; ut qui, Angelo nuntiante, Christi Filii tui
incarnationem cognovimus, per passionem eius et crucem, ad
resurrectionis gloriam perducamur. Per eundem Christum Dominum
nostrum.

R. Amen.


---Pascal Season

Regina caeli, laetare, alleluia:

Quia quem meruisti portare, alleluia.

Resurrexit sicut dixit, alleluia.

Ora pro nobis Deum, alleluia.

V. Gaude et laetare, Virgo Maria, Alleluia,

R. Quia surrexit Dominus vere, alleluia.

Deus qui per resurrectionem Filii tui, Domini nostri Iesu
Christi, mundum laetificare dignatus es: praesta, quaesumus,
ut per eius Genitricem Virginem Mariam, perputuae capiamus
gaudia vitae. Per eundem Christum Dominum nostrum.

R. Amen.
                         ---------------------

---Pascal Season

V. The angel of the Lord declared unto Mary;

R. And she conceived of the Holy Spirit.

All: Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now, and
in the hour of our death. Amen.

V. Behold the handmaid of the Lord:

R. Be it done unto me according to Thy word.

All: Hail Mary, full of grace, .....

V. And the Word was made flesh:

R. And dwelt among us.

All: Hail Mary, full of grace, .....

V. Pray for us, O Holy Mother of God.

R. That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.

Let us pray: Pour forth, we beseech Thee, O Lord, Thy grace
into our hearts, that we, to whom the incarnation of Christ,
Thy Son, was made known by the message of an angel, may by His
passion and cross be brought to the glory of His resurrection,
through the same Christ our Lord.

R. Amen.

--------Outside Pascal Season

Queen of Heaven rejoice, alleluia:

For He whom you merited to bear, alleluia,

Has risen as He said, alleluia.

Pray for us to God, alleluia..

V. Rejoice and be glad, O Virgin Mary, alleluia.

R. Because the Lord is truly risen, alleluia.

Let us pray: O God, who by the Resurrection of Thy Son, our
Lord Jesus Christ, granted joy to the whole world: grant we
beg Thee, that through the intercession of the Virgin Mary,
His Mother, we may lay hold of the joys of eternal life.
Through the same Christ our Lord.

R. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


              ----Domine Iesu Christe, Fili Dei Vivi----
              ----Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the Living God----

Domine Iesu Christe, Fili Dei vivi, qui hora sexta pro
redemptione mundi Crucis patibulum ascendisti et Sanguinem
tuum pretiosum in remissionem peccatorum nostrorum fudisti; te
humiliter deprecamur, ut post obitum nostrum paradisi ianuas
nos gaudenter introire concedas: Qui vivis et regnas in
saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, who at the sixth
hour didst mount the gibbet of the Cross for the redemption of
the world and didst shed Thy Precious Blood for the remission
of our sins, we humbly beseech Thee, that Thou wouldst grant
us the grace after death to enter with joy the gates of
paradise. Who livest and reignest for ever and ever. Amen.

>From the Raccolta 213. From the Roman Missal. (S. P. Ap. July
18, 1936)
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Evening Prayer
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                ----Conditor alme siderum----
                ----Creator of the Stars of Night----

Anonymous text from the 7th century used at Vespers during
Advent.

Conditor alme siderum,
aeterna lux credentium,
Christe, redemptor omnium,
exaudi preces supplicum.
Qui condolens interitu
mortis perire saeculum,
salvasti mundum languidum,
donans reis remedium,
Vergente mundi vespere,
uti sponsus de thalmo,
egressus honestissima
Virginis matris clausula.
Cuius forti potentiae
genu curvantur omnia;
caelestia, terrestria
nutu fatentur subdita.
Te, Sancte, fide quaesumus,
venture iudex saeculi,
conserva nos in tempore
hostis a telo perfidi.
Sit, Christe, rex piissime,
tibi Patrique gloria
cum Spiritu Paraclito,
in sempiterna saecula. Amen.
       ---------------------


Creator of the stars of night,
Your people's everlasting light,
Jesus, Redeemer, save us all,
And hear your servants when they call.
Now, grieving that the ancient curse
Should doom to death a universe,
You heal all men who need your grace
To save and heal a ruined race.
At whose great name, majestic now,
All knees must bend, all hearts must bow;
All things in heaven and earth adore,
And own thee King for evermore.
To God the Father, God the Son,
And God the Spirit, Three in One,
Praise, honor, might, and glory be
>From age to age eternally.
(Translator J. M. Neal, 1818-1866)
>From the Roman Breviary.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Magnificat----
                         ----Canticle of Mary----

The Magnificat has occupied an important place in the Liturgy
of the Church since around the fourth century. The canticle is
taken from the Gospel of Luke (1:46-55) where the events of
the Visitation of Mary to her cousin Elizabeth are recorded.
Elizabeth who was pregnant with John the Baptist at the time,
greeted Mary with the well known phrase "Blessed art thou
amongst women, blessed is the fruit of thy womb Jesus". To
which Mary responded with the canticle. Today the Magnificat
is used during Vespers every evening. A partial indulgence is
granted to the faithful who recite it.

Magnificat anima mea Dominum,
et exultavit spiritus meus in Deo salvatore meo,
quia respexit humilitatem ancillae suae.Ecce enim ex hoc
beatem me dicent omnes generationes,
quia fecit mihi magna, qui potens est,
et sanctum nomen eius,
et misericordia eius in progenies et progenies timentibus
eum.Fecit potentiam in brachio suo,
dispersit superbos mente cordi sui;
deposuit potentes de sede
et exaltavit humiles;
esurientes implevit bonis et divites dimisit inanes.Suscepit
Israel puerum suum,
recordatus misericordiae,
sicut locutus est ad patres nostros,
Abraham et semini eius in saecula.
Amen.
                         ---------------------
My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour;
for He has looked with favor on His lowly servant.From this
day all generations will call me blessed:
the Almighty has done great things for me,
and holy is His Name.
He has mercy on those who fear Him
in every generation.He has shown the strength of His arm,
He has scattered the proud in their conceit.
He has cast down the mighty from their thrones,
and has lifted up the lowly.
He has filled the hungry with good things,
and the rich He has sent away empty.He has come to the help of
His servant Israel
for He has remembered His promise of mercy,
the promise He made to our fathers,
to Abraham and his children forever.
Amen.
Liturgia Horarum/ ICEL Liturgy of the Hours.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Compline
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                         ----Te Lucis Ante Terminum----
                         ----Before the End of Light----

An old and venerable hymn for the close of day at Compline.

Te lucis ante terminum,
Rerum Creator, poscimus
Ut pro tua clementia
Sis praesul et custodia.
Procul recedant somnia
Et noctium phantasmata;
Hostemque nostrum comprime,
Ne polluantur corpora.
Praesta, Pater piissime,
Patrique compar Unice,
Cum Spiritu Paraclito
Regnans per omne saeculum.
Amen.
                         ---------------------
We ask You, Creator of things,
Before the end of light,
That for Your kindness,
You may be Protector and Guard.
May bad dreams and phantasms
Of the night go far away:
Restrain our enemy lest our
Bodies should be polluted.
Grant this most kind Father,
And You, the Only and Equal Son,
With the Spirit Paraclete,
Reigning through all ages.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Nunc Dimittis----
                         ----Canticle of Simeon----

Nunc Dimittis is the prayer recited by Simeon at the
presentation of Jesus at the temple. (Luke 2:29-31). This
canticle has been used daily at Compline since the 4th
century.

Nunc dimittis servum tuum, Domine,
Secundum verbum tuum in pace:
Quia viderunt oculi mei salutare tuum,
Quod parasti ante faciem omnium populorum:
Lumen ad revelationem gentium,
Et gloriam plebis tuae Israel.
                         ---------------------
Lord, now let Thy servant go in peace;
Thy word has been fulfilled:
My own eyes have seen the salvation
which Thou hast prepared in the sight of every people:
A light to reveal Thee to the nations
and the glory of Thy people Israel.
Liturgia Horarum, Liturgy of the Hours/ICEL
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Visita, quaesumus, Domine----
                         ----Visit, We Beg Thee, O Lord----

This prayer has been a traditional part of Compline probably
since the fifth century or so. A partial indulgence is
attached to this prayer from the Roman Breviary.

Visita, quaesumus, Domine, habitationem istam, et omnes
insidias inimici ab ea longe repelle: Angeli tui sancti
habitent in ea, qui nos in pace custodiant; et benedictio tua
sit super nos semper. Per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Visit, we beg you, O Lord, this dwelling, and drive from it
all snares of the enemy; let your holy Angles dwell herein, to
keep us in peace; and let your blessing be always upon us.
Through Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Jesus Christ, My God----

Written by St. Alphonsus M. de' Ligouri.

Jesus Christ, my God, I adore Thee and thank Thee for all the
graces Thou hast given me this day. I offer Thee my sleep and
all the moments of this night, and I beseech Thee to keep me
without sin. Wherefore I put myself within Thy sacred Side and
under the mantle of our Lady, my Mother. Let Thy Holy Angles
stand about me and keep me in peace; and let Thy blessing be
upon me. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
The Blessed Virgin Mary
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

                 ----Da nobis famulis tuis----
                 ----Grant unto us, Thy servants----

Da nobis famulis tuis, Domine Iesu Christe, beatae Mariae
Virginis Matris tuae semper et ubique patrocinio protegi.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

Grant unto us, Thy servants, O Lord Jesus Christ, to be
protected at all times and in all places by the patronage of
Blessed Mary, Thy Virgin Mother. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


The next four prayers, aside from the Hail Mary, are the four
most popular Marian prayers. They are used in both private and
public devotions. In particular they hold a prominent place in
the Liturgy of the Hours as the final four concluding
antiphons for Compline. Franciscans were apparently the first
to introduce this prayer into the Liturgy and St. Bonaventure
is credited with being the first to add them to the Office
around 1274.


              ----Alma Redemptoris Mater----
              ----Mother Benign of Our Redeeming Lord----

Alma Redemptoris Mater was composed by Herman Contractus
(Herman the Cripple) (1013-1054). The prayer is composed of
phrases taken from St. Fulgentius, St. Epiphanius, and St.
Iranaeus. A partial indulgence is granted to the faithful who
devoutly recite this prayer.

Alma Redemptoris Mater, quae pervia caeli
Porta manes, et stella maris, succurre cadenti,
Surgere qui curat, populo: tu quae genuisti,
Nature mirante, tuum sanctum Genitorem
Virgo prius ac posterius, Gabrielis ab ore
Sumens illud Ave, peccatorum miserere.
                         ---------------------
Kind Mother of the Redeemer, gate of heaven,
Star of the sea, assist your people
Who have fallen yet strive to rise again.
To the wonderment of nature you bore
Your holy Creator, yet remained a virgin after as before.
You who received Gabriel's joyful greeting,
Have mercy on us poor sinners.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Ave Regina Caelorum----
                         ----Hail Queen of Heaven----

Ave Regina Caelorum is a popular Marian antiphon from around
the 12th century. It appears to be of monastic origin and the
author is unknown. Herman Contractus (+1054) is one suggested
author in as much he wrote several popular Marian antiphons at
that time. As testified by St. Jerome, the final two lines is
a versicle composed by St. Ephrem. A partial indulgence is
granted to the faithful who devoutly recite this prayer.

Ave, Regina caelorum,
Ave, Domina Angelorum:
Salve, radix, salve, porta,
Ex qua mundo lux est orta:
Gaude, Virgo gloriosa,
Super omnes speciosa,
Vale, o valde decora,
Et pro nobis Christum exora.
Dignare me laudare te, Virgo sacrata.
Da mihi virtutem contra hostes tuos.
                       ---------------------


Hail, Queen of Heaven,
Hail, Lady of Angels:
Hail, root, hail door,
>From which light is arisen to the world:
Rejoice, glorious Virgin,
Lovely above all,
Hail, Oh most beautiful,
And entreat Christ for us.
Allow me to praise you, holy Virgin.
Give me strength against your enemies.
>From the Roman Breviary.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Regina Caeli----
                         ----Queen of Heaven----

The author of Regina Caeli is unknown, but by virtue of its
presence (or absence) in manuscripts, it had to have been
composed sometime between the 9th and 12th centuries, One
possible author in that time period is Gregory V (+998).

Perhaps the most interesting legend surrounding the prayer has
it being composed, in part, by St. Gregory the Great. The
legend has it that in the year 596, during Easter time, a
pestilence was ravaging Rome. St. Gregory the Great requested
a procession be held to pray that the pestilence be stopped.
On the appointed day of the procession he assembled with his
clergy at dawn at the church of Ara Coeli. Holding in his hand
the icon of our Lady that was said to have been painted by St.
Luke, he and his clergy started out in procession to St.
Peter's. As he passed the Castle of Hadrian, as it was called
in those days, voices were heard from above singing the Regina
Caeli. The astonished Pope, enraptured with the angelic
singing, replied in a loud voice: "Ora pro nobis Deum.
Alleluia!" At that moment an angel appeard in a glorious
light, sheathed the sword of pestalence in its scabbard, and
from that day the pestillance ceased. In honor of this
miraculous event, the name of the !
castle was then changed to San Ang
elo and the words of the angelic hymn were inscribed upon the
roof of the Church of Ara Coeli.

A partial indulgence is granted to the faithful who devoutly
recite this prayer.

Regina caeli, laetare, alleluia:
Quia quem meruisti portare, alleluia.
Resurrexit sicut dixit, alleluia.
Ora pro nobis Deum, alleluia.
Gaude et laetare, Virgo Maria, Alleluia,
Quia surrexit Dominus vere, alleluia.
                         ---------------------
Queen of heaven rejoice. alleluia:
For He whom you merited to bear, alleluia,
Has risen as he said, alleluia.
Pray for us to God, alleluia.
Rejoice and be glad, O Virgin Mary, alleluia.
Because the Lord is truly risen, alleluia.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Salve Regina----
                         ----Hail Holy Queen----

The authorship of this prayer is uncertain. Adhemar de
Monteil, Bishop of Le Puy (+1098) is one suggested author and
Herman Contractus, who wrote a number of well known Marian
hymns is another. The final three invocations were added by
St. Bernard (1091-1153). The Chronicles of Spires tell us that
the hymn originally ended with the word ostende. When St.
Bernard was the Papal Legate in Germany, he heard the hymn
being sung in the Church of Spires and he threw himself upon
his knees. In a fit of sudden inspiration he rang out with the
words of the last three invocations; O clemens, O pia, O
dulcis Virgo Maria. These three invocations have been repeated
ever since. Four stones in the Church mark the place where the
holy doctor knelt.

This antiphon is said to be the most beautiful of the final
four Marian Antiphons for Compline. It is said to be a
favorite of our Lady herself. According to the testimony of
several pious persons, she appeared to them when they said,
"Et Iesum ... ostende".

Another account relates a vision St. Dominic had. He was
praying in the church until midnight. He was entering a
corridor of the monastery to resume his midnight prayer vigil
when he chanced to raise his eyes and see three beautiful
ladies approach him. He knelt before the principle lady and
she blessed him. Even though St. Dominic recognized her, he
begged her to tell him her name. The lady replied, "I am she
whom you invoke every evening: and when you say, "Eia ergo,
advocata nostra, I prostrate myself before my Son, entreating
Him to protect this Order." (From the "Life of St. Dominic,
Lacordaire).

St. Alphonsus comments upon the Salve Regina extensively in
his Glories of Mary. Father Taunton says: "Its fragrance
lingers over our soul when, at the end of a long day, or at
the end of any Hour, we place our prayers in Mary's hands,
that she, the pure and glorious one, may offer them with all
the power of a Mother's love to her God, to that Son, the
blessed Fruit of her womb. Our prayers coming through her
hands will be doubly acceptable to her Son, and we shall be
the sooner heard for the reverence He has for His Mother".

Today it is one of the Final Marian Antiphons that conclude
Compline in the Divine Office. Franciscans were apparently the
first to introduce this prayer into the Liturgy. St.
Bonaventure is credited with being the first to add it to the
Office in about 1274. It is also used in conjunction with the
Rosary. A partial indulgence is granted to the faithful who
devoutly recite this prayer.



Salve, Regina, mater misericordiae: vita, dulcedo, et spes
nostra, salve. Ad te clamamus exsules filii Hevae. Ad te
suspiramus, gementes et flentes in hac lacrimarum valle. Eia,
ergo, advocata nostra, illos tuos misericordes oculos ad nos
converte. Et Iesum, benedictum fructum ventris tui, nobis post
hoc exsilium ostende. O clemens, o pia, o dulcis Virgo Maria.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

Hail holy Queen, Mother of mercy, our life, our sweetness, and
our hope. To thee do we cry, poor banished children of Eve. To
thee do we send up our sighs, mourning and weeping in this
valley of tears. Turn then, most gracious Advocate, thine eyes
of mercy toward us. And after this our exile show unto us the
blessed fruit of thy womb, Jesus. O clement, O loving, O sweet
Virgin Mary. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Ave Maria, Sequentia----
                         ----Hail Mary, Sequence----

The Ave Maria Sequence is an expansion of the shorter Ave
Maria everyone is familiar with. It is a very famous Gregorian
Chant written in the Middle Ages.

Ave Maria, gratia plena:
Dominus tecum, Virgo serena.
Benedicta tu in mulieribus:
Quae peperisti pacem hominibus.
Et Angelis gloriam.
Et benedictus fructus ventris tui:
Qui cohaeredes ut essemus sui:
Nos fecit per gratiam.
Per hoc autem Ave,
Mundo tam suave.
Contra carnis iura:
Genuisti prolem,
Novum stella solem, Nova genitura.
Tu parvi et magni,
Leonis et Agni,
Salvatoris Christi Templum exstitisti,
Sed virgo intacta.
Tu floris et roris,
Panis et pastoris,
Virginum regina,
Rosa sine spina,
Genetrix es facta.
Tu civitas Regis iustitiae.
Tu mater es misericordiae:
De lacu faecis et miseriae,
Paenitentem reformans gratiae.
Te collaudat caelestis curia.
Tibi nostra favent obsequia;
Per te reis donatur venia:
Per te iustis confertur gratia.
Ergo maris stella,
Verbi Dei cella,
Et solis aurora:
Paradisi porta,
Per quam lux est orta,
Natum tuum ora:
Ut nos solvat a peccatis.
Et in regno claritatis.
Quo lux lucet sedula.
Collocet per saecula.
                         ---------------------


Hail, Mary, full of grace.
The Lord is with thee, serene Virgin.
Blessed art thou amongst women,
Thou hast brought forth the peace of men
And the glory of the angels.
And blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
He who has made us co-heirs
With Him by His grace.
Through that, "Ave",
So sweet to the world,
Against the laws of flesh,
Thou hast borne a Son,
A new star giving birth to a new sun.
Without losing thy virginity,
Thou becamest the temple of Him
Who is both small and great,
And Lion and Lamb, Christ the Saviour.
Thou, queen of virgins,
A rose without thorns,
Hast given birth
To the flower and the dew,
The true Bread of Life and Good Sheperd.
Thou art the city of the King of justice,
Thou art the mother of mercy;
>From the depth of sin and wretchedness,
Thou restoreth the penitent to grace.
The heavenly court acclaims thee,
Our homages surrounds thee:
Through thee, the guilty are forgiven,
Through thee, grace is given to the just.
Therefore, star of the sea,
Dwelling place of the Word of God,
Dawn that announces the sun,
Gate of paradise,
>From which the light has risen,
Pray to thy Son:
That He may deliver us from our sins
And gather us forever
In thy glorious kingdom
Where unending light shines.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Ave Maris Stella----
                         ----Hail Star of Ocean----

Ave Maris Stella is a popular liturgical hymn dating at least
back to the 9th century. Its exact origins are unknown, but it
dates at least from the 9th century for it is preserved in a
9th century manuscript now in the Swiss Monastery of St.
Gallen. It is frequently attributed to St. Bernard of
Clairvaux (1090-1153) and has been attributed to King Robert
(1031), both of whom are too late to have authored it. It has
also been attributed to Venantius Fortunatus (+609).  It is
found in ancient codices of the Divine Office for Vespers on
Marian feasts. Today it is still in use in the Divine Office
and in the Little Office of the Blessed Virgin.

Ave maris stella,
Dei Mater alma,
Atque semper Virgo,
Felix caeli porta.
Sumens illud Ave
Gabrielis ore,
Funda nos in pace,
Mutans Hevae nomen.
Solve vincula reis,
Profer lumen caecis
Mala nostra pelle,
Bona cuncta posce.
Monstra te esse matrem:
Sumat per te preces,
Qui pro nobis natus,
Tulit esse tuus.
Virgo singularis,
Inter omnes mites,
Nos culpis solutos,
Mites fac et castos.
Vitam praesta puram,
Iter para tuum:
Ut videntes lesum
Semper collaetemur.
Sit laus Deo Patri,
Summo Christo decus,
Spiritui Sancto,
Tribus honor unus. Amen.
         ---------------------


Hail, O Star of the ocean,
God's own Mother blest,
Ever sinless Virgin,
Gate of heav'nly rest.
Taking that sweet Ave,
Which from Gabriel came,
Peace confirm within us,
Changing Eve's name.
Break the sinners' fetters,
Make our blindness day,
Chase all evils from us,
For all blessings pray.
Show thyself a Mother,
May the Word divine
Born for us thine infant
Hear our prayers through thine.
Virgin all excelling,
Mildest of the mild,
Free from guilt preserve us
Meek and undefiled.
Keep our life all spotless,
Make our way secure
Till we find in Jesus,
Joy for evermore.
Praise to God the Father,
Honor to the Son,
In the Holy Spirit,
Be the glory one. Amen.

>From the Liturgia Horarum.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


           ----Concede nos famulos tuos----
           ----Grant Unto Us, Thy Servants----

>From the Roman Missal, common of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and
the common in Liturgy of the Hours.

Concede nos famulos tuos, quaesumus, Domine Deus, perpetua
mentis et corporis sanitate gaudere; et, gloriosa beatae
Mariae semper Virginis intercessione, a praesenti liberari
tristitia et aeterna perfrui laetitia. Per Christum Dominum
nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Grant we beseech Thee, O Lord God, unto us Thy servants, that
we may rejoice in continual health of mind and body; and, by
the glorious intercession of the blessed Mary ever Virgin, may
be delivered from present sadness and enter into the joy of
Thine eternal gladness. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Immaculata Mater Dei----
                         ----Immaculate Mother of God----

Written by St. Vincent Pallotti (1798-1850), founder of the
Pallotines.

Immaculata Mater Dei, Regina caelorum, Mater misericordiae,
advocata et refugium peccatorum, ecce ego illuminatus et
incitatus gratiis, a te materna benevolentia large mihi
impetratis ex thesauro divino, statuo nunc et semper dare in
manus tuas cor meum Iesu consecrandum.

Tibi igitur, beatissima Virgo, coram novem choris Angelorum
cunctisque Sanctis illud trado, Tu autem, meo nomine, Iesu id
consecra; et ex fiducia filiali, quam profiteor, certum mihi
est te nunc et semper quantum poteris esse facturum, ut cor
meum iugiter totum sit Iesu, imitans perfectissime Sanctos,
praesertim sanctum Ioseph, Sponsum tuum purissimum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Immaculate Mother of God, Queen of heaven, Mother of mercy,
Advocate and Refuge of sinners, behold, I, enlightened and
inspired by the graces obtained for me abundantly from the
divine treasury through thy maternal affection, resolve this
day and always to place my heart into thy hands to be
consecrated to Jesus.

To thee, therefore, most Blessed Virgin, in the presence of
nine choirs of Angles and all the Saints, I now give it. Do
thou, in my name, consecrate it to Jesus; and out of the
filial confidence which I hereby make profession of, I am
certain that now and always thou wilt do all thou canst to
bring it to pass that my heart may ever wholly belong to
Jesus, and may imitate perfectly the example of the Saints,
and in particular that of Saint Joseph, thy most pure Spouse.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Litania Loreti----
                         ----Litany of Loreto----

The Litany of Loreto is used to honor Mary, the Mother of God.
The Litany  is used during May services, Benediction, and in
the Divine Office by some congregations.  It carries with it a
partial indulgence.

The Litany owes many of its praises to the Greek Akathist
Hymn, first translated in Venice into Latin around the year
800. The other titles and praises addressed to Mary are found
extensively in the writings of the early Church Fathers of the
first six centuries. The Litany was first composed most likely
in or around Paris between the years 1150 and 1200. It got its
name from the Italian shrine (Loreto) were it was adpoted in
1558. Pope Sixtus V approved its use in public worship in
1587.

At one time, the Litany was longer than its present form.
There were an additional 15 or so more invocations (Our Lady
of Humility, Mother of Mercy, Temple of the Spirit, Gate of
Redemption, Queen of Disciples) that have been dropped over
time giving us our present form.

Leader
Congregation,

Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Christe, eleison.                                  Christe,
eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Christe, audi nos.                                 Christe,
audi nos.
Christe, exaudi nos.                               Christe,
exaudi nos.
Pater de caelis, Deus,                             miserere
nobis.
Fili, Redemptor mundi, Deus,                       miserere
nobis.
Spiritus Sancte Deus,                              miserere
nobis.
Sancta Trintitas, unus Deus,                       miserere
nobis.
Sancta Maria,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Dei Genitrix,                               ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Virgo virginum,                             ora pro
nobis.
Mater Christi,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Mater Divinae gratiae,                             ora pro
nobis.
Mater purissima,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Mater castissima,                                  ora pro
nobis.
Mater inviolata,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Mater intemerata,                                  ora pro
nobis.
Mater amabilis,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Mater admirabilis,                                 ora pro
nobis.
Mater boni consilii,                               ora pro
nobis.
Mater Creatoris,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Mater Salvatoris,                                  ora pro
nobis.
Virgo prudentissima,                               ora pro
nobis.
Virgo veneranda,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Virgo praedicanda,                                 ora pro
nobis.
Virgo potens,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Virgo clemens,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Virgo fidelis,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Speculum iustitae,                                 ora pro
nobis.
Sedes sapientiae,                                  ora pro
nobis.
Causa nostrae laetitiae,                           ora pro
nobis.
Vas spirituale,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Vas honorabile,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Vas insigne devotionis,                            ora pro
nobis.
Rosa mystica,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Turris Davidica,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Turris eburnea,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Domus aurea,                                       ora pro
nobis.
Foederis arca,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Ianua caeli,                                       ora pro
nobis.
Stella matutina,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Salus infirmorum,                                  ora pro
nobis.
Refugium peccatorum,                               ora pro
nobis.
Consolatrix afflictorum,                           ora pro
nobis.
Auxilium Christianorum,                            ora pro
nobis.
Regina Angelorum,                                  ora pro
nobis.
Regina Patriarcharum,                              ora pro
nobis.
Regina Prophetarum,                                ora pro
nobis.
Regina Apostolorum,                                ora pro
nobis.
Regina Martyrum,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Regina Confessorum,                                ora pro
nobis.
Regina Virginum,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Regina Sanctorum omnium,                           ora pro
nobis.
Regina sine labe originali concepta,               ora pro
nobis.
Regina in caelum assumpta,                         ora pro
nobis.
Regina Sanctissimi Rosarii,                        ora pro
nobis.
Regina pacis,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Angus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,               parce
nobis, Domine.
Angus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,               exaudi
nobis, Domine.
Angus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,               miserere
nobis.
Ora pro nobis, Sancta Dei Genitrix,                ut digni
efficamur

promisionibus
                                                   Christi.

Oremus: Concede nos famulos tuos, quaesumus, Domine Deus,
perpetua mentis et corporis sanitate gaudere: et gloriosa
beatae Mariae semper Virginis intercessione, a praesente
liberati tristitia, et aeterna perfui laetitia. Per Christum
Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Lord, have mercy on us.                            Lord, have
mercy
                                                   on us.
Christ, have mercy on us.                          Christ,
have mercy
                                                   on us.
Lord, have mercy on us.                            Lord, have
mercy
                                                   on us.
Christ, hear us.                                   Christ,
hear us.
Christ, graciously hear us.                        Christ,
graciously
                                                   hear us.
God the Father of heaven,                          have mercy
on us.
God the Son, Redeemer of the world,                have mercy
on us.
God the Holy Spirit,                               have mercy
on us.
Holy Trinity, one God,                             have mercy
on us.
Holy Mary,                                         pray for
us.
Holy Mother of God,                                pray for
us.
Holy Virgin of virgins,                            pray for
us.
Mother of Christ,                                  pray for
us.
Mother of divine grace,                            pray for
us.
Mother most pure,                                  pray for
us.
Mother most chaste,                                pray for
us.
Mother inviolate,                                  pray for
us.
Mother undefiled,                                  pray for
us.
Mother most amiable,                               pray for
us.
Mother most admirable,                             pray for
us.
Mother of good counsel,                            pray for
us.
Mother of our Creator,                             pray for
us.
Mother of our Saviour,                             pray for
us.
Virgin most prudent,                               pray for
us.
Virgin most venerable,                             pray for
us.
Virgin most renowned,                              pray for
us.
Virgin most powerful,                              pray for
us.
Virgin most merciful,                              pray for
us.
Virgin most faithful,                              pray for
us.
Mirror of justice,                                 pray for
us.
Seat of wisdom,                                    pray for
us.
Cause of our joy,                                  pray for
us.
Spiritual vessel,                                  pray for
us.
Vessel of honor,                                   pray for
us.
Singular vessel of devotion,                       pray for
us.
Mystical rose,                                     pray for
us.
Tower of David,                                    pray for
us.
Tower of ivory,                                    pray for
us.
House of gold,                                     pray for
us.
Ark of the covenant,                               pray for
us.
Gate of heaven,                                    pray for
us.
Morning star,                                      pray for
us.
Health of the sick,                                pray for
us.
Refuge of sinners,                                 pray for
us.
Comforter of the afflicted,                        pray for
us.
Help of Christians,                                pray for
us.
Queen of Angels,                                   pray for
us.
Queen of Patriarchs,                               pray for
us.
Queen of Prophets,                                 pray for
us.
Queen of Apostles,                                 pray for
us.
Queen of Martyrs,                                  pray for
us.
Queen of Confessors,                               pray for
us.
Queen of Virgins,                                  pray for
us.
Queen of all Saints,                               pray for
us.
Queen conceived without original sin,              pray for
us.
Queen assumed into heaven,                         pray for
us.
Queen of the most holy Rosary,                     pray for
us.
Queen of Peace,                                    pray for
us.
Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world, spare us, O
Lord.
Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world, graciously
hear us,
                                                   O Lord.
Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world, have mercy
on us.
Pray for us, O holy Mother of God,                 that we may
be
                                                   made worthy
of the
                                                   promises of
Christ.

Let us Pray: Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord God, that we Thy
servants, may enjoy lasting health of mind and body, and by
the glorious intercession of the Blessed Mary, ever Virgin, be
delivered from present sorrow and enter into the joy of
eternal happiness. Through Christ our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                 ----Memorare, O piissima Virgo Maria----
                 ----Remember, O most gracious Virgin Mary----

The Memorare was written by St. Bernard of Clairvaux (1090-
1153), Confessor, Abbot, and Doctor of the Church. A partial
indulgence is granted to the faithful who recite the Memorare.

Memorare, O piissima Virgo Maria, non esse auditum a saeculo,
quemquem ad tua currentem praesidia, tua implorantem auxillia,
tua petentem suffragia, esse derelictum. Ego tali animatus
confidentia, ad te, Virgo Virginum, Mater, curro ad te venio,
coram te gemens peccator assisto. Noli, Mater Verbi, verba mea
despicere; sed audi propitia et exaudi. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Remember, O most gracious Virgin Mary, that never was it known
that anyone who fled to thy protection, implored thy help or
sought thy intercession, was left unaided. Inspired with this
confidence, I fly to thee, O Virgin of virgins, my Mother; to
thee do I come, before thee I stand, sinful and sorrowful. O
Mother of the Word Incarnate, despise not my petitions, but in
thy mercy hear and answer me. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


               ----Memorare, o Domina Nostra a Sacro Corde----
               ----Remember, Our Lady of the Sacred Heart----

Memorare, o Domina Nostra a Sacro Corde, quam ineffabilem tibi
potentiam Filius tuus divinus contulerit in suum ipsius Cor
adorabile. Pleni nos fiduciae in meritis tuis, accedimus
implorantes tuum praesidium. O Cordis Iesu Thesauraria
caelestis, illius Cordis, fontis inexhausti gratiarum omnium,
quod potes ispa pro tua voluntate recludere, ut defluant inde
in homines divitiae amoris et misericordiae, luminis et
salutis, quae in ipso continentur; concede nobis, obsecramus,
beneficia quae petimus ... Nulla nobis, nulla a te erit
repulsa, et, quoniam Mater Tu nostra es, o Domina Nostra a
Sacro Corde, preces nostras benigne habe et benigne exaudi.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

Remember, Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, what ineffable power
thy divine Son hath given thee over His own adorable Heart.
Filled with confidence in thy merits, we come before thee and
implore thy protection. O heavenly Treasurer of the Heart of
Jesus, that Heart which is the inexhaustible source of all
graces, which thou mayest open to us at thy good pleasure, in
order that from it may flow forth upon mankind the riches of
love and mercy, light and salvation, that are contained
therein; grant unto us, we beseech thee, the favors which we
seek ... We can never, never be refused by thee, and since
thou art Mother, O our Lady of the Sacred Heart, graciously
receive our prayers and grant our request. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----O Beata Virgo Maria----
                         ----O Blessed Virgin Mary----

Written by St. Augustine(354-430).

O beata Virgo Maria, quis tibi digne valeat iura gratiarum ac
laudum preaconia rependere, quae singulari tuo assensu, mundo
succurristi perdito? Quas tibi laudes fragilitas humani
generis persolvat, quae solo tuo commercio recuperandi aditum
invenit?

Accipe itaque quascumque exiles, quascumque meritis tuis
impares gratiarum actiones, et cum susceperis vota, culpas
nostras orando excusa. Admitte nostras preces intra sacrarium
exauditionis et reporta nobis antidotum reconcilliationis. Sit
per te excusabile quod per te ingerimus; fiat impetrabile quod
fida mente poscimus.

Accipe quod offerimus, redona quod rogamus, excusa quod
timemus, quia Tu es spes unica peccatorum. Per te speramus
veniam delictorum et in te, beatissima, nostrorum est
expectatio praemiorum. Sancta Maria, succurre miseris; iuva
pusillanimes; refove flebiles; ora pro populo; interveni pro
clero; intercede pro devoto femineo sexu: sentiant omnes tuum
iuvamen, quicumque celebrant tuam sanctam commemorationem.

Assite parata votis poscentium et reporta nobis optatum
effectum. Sint tibi studia assidua orare pro populo Dei, quae
meruisti, benedicta, Redemptorem ferre mundi, qui vivit et
regnat in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O blessed Virgin Mary, who can worthily repay thee thy just
dues of praise and thanksgiving, thou who by the wondrous
assent of thy will didst rescue a fallen world? What songs of
praise can our weak human nature recite in thy honor, since it
is by thy intervention alone that it has found the way to
restoration?

Accept, then, such poor thanks as we have here to offer,
though they be unequal to thy merits; and, receiving our vows,
obtain by thy prayers the remission of our offenses. Carry
thou our prayers within the sanctuary of the heavenly
audience, and bring forth from it the antidote of our
reconciliation. May the sins we bring before Almighty God
through thee, become pardonable through thee; may what we ask
for with sure confidence, through thee be granted.

Take our offering, grant us our requests, obtain pardon for
what we fear, for thou art the sole hope of sinners. Through
thee we hope for the remission of our sins, and in thee, O
blessed Lady, is our hope of reword. Holy Mary, succor the
miserable, help the fainthearted, comfort the sorrowful, pray
for thy people, plead for the clergy, intercede for all women
consecrated to God; may all who keep thy holy commemoration
feel now thy help and protection.

Be thou ever ready to assist us when we pray, and bring back
to us the answers to our prayers. Make it thy continual care
to pray for the people of God, thou who, blessed by God, didst
merit to bear the Redeemer of the world, who liveth and
reigneth, world without end. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


               ----O Domina mea, Sancta Maria----
               ----O Holy Mary, my Mistress----

Written by St. Aloysius Gonzaga (1568-1591).

O Domina mea, sancta Maria, me in tuam benedictam fidem ac
singularem custodiam et in sinum misericordiae tuae, hodie et
quotidie et in hora exitus mei animam meam et corpus meum tibi
commendo: omnem spem et consolationem meam, omnes angustias et
miserias meas, vitam et finem vitae meae tibi  committo, ut
per tuam sanctissimam intercessionem et per tua merita, omnia
mea dirigantur et disponantur opera secundum tuam tuique Filii
voluntatem. Amen.
                         ---------------------

O holy Mary, my Mistress, into thy blessed trust and special
keeping, into the bosom of thy tender mercy, this day, every
day of my life and at the hour of my death, I commend my soul
and body; to thee I entrust all my hopes and consolations, all
my trials and miseries, my life and the end of my life, that
through thy most holy intercession and thy merits, all my
actions may be ordered and disposed according to thy will and
that of thy divine Son. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                   ----O Gloriosa Virginum----
                   ----O Queen of all the Virgin Choir----

Composed by Venantius Fortunatus (530-609), the Bishop of
Poitiers. It was a favorite of St. Anthony of Padua. Tradition
has it that it was sung by St. Anthony's mother when he was an
infant. Later in life, it was constantly on his lips and he
sang it at his death.  It was used in the past as the hymn for
Lauds in the Little Office of the Blessed Virgin Mary.

O GLORIOSA Virginum,
Sublimis inter sidera;
Qui te creavit, parvulum
Lactente nutris ubere.
Quod Heva tristis abstulit,
Tu reddis almo germine;
Intrent ut astra flebiles,
Coeli recludis cardines.
Tu Regis alti ianua,
Et aula lucis fulgida:
Vitam datam per Virginem,
Gentes redemptae, plaudite.
Iesu, tibi sit gloria,
Qui natus es de Virigine,
Cum Patre, et almo Spiritu,
In sempiterna saecula. Amen.
    ---------------------


O QUEEN of all the virgin choir!
Enthron'd above the starry sky!
Who with thy bosom's milk didst feed
Thy own Creator, Lord most high.
What man had lost in hapless Eve,
Thy sacred womb to man restores,
Thou to the wretched here beneath
Hast open'd Heaven eternal doors.
Hail, O refulgent Hall of light!
Hail Gate august of Heaven's high King!
Through Thee redeem'd to endless life,
Thy praise let all the nations sing.
O Iesu! born of Virgin bright,
Immortal glory be to Thee;
Praise to the Father infinite
And Holy Ghost eternally. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----O Pura et Immaculata----
                         ----O Pure and Immaculate----

Written by St. Ephrem the Syrian (306-373). St. Ephrem is
especially noted for his Marian Hymns which are an important
source of Catholic Dogma. Pope Benedict XV officially declared
him a Doctor of the Church in 1920.

O pura et immaculata, eademque benedicta Virgo, magni Filii
tui universorum Domini Mater inculpata, integra et
sacrosanctissima, desperantium atque reorum spes, te
collaudamus. Tibi ut gratia plenissimae benedicimus, quae
Christum genuisti Deum et Hominem: omnes coram te
prosternimur: omnes te invocamus et auxilium tuum imploramus.
Eripe nos, o Virgo sancta atque intemerata, a quaecumque
ingruente necessitate et a cunctis tentationibus diaboli.

Nostra conciliatrix et advocata in hora mortis atque iudicii
esto: nosque a futuro inexstinguibili igne et a tenebris
exterioribus libera: et Filii tui nos gloria dignare, o Virgo
et Mater dulcissima ac clementissima. Tu siquidem unica spes
nostra es securissima et sanctissima apud Deum, cui gloria et
honor, decus atque imperium in sempiterna saecula saeculorum.
Amen.
                         ---------------------

O pure and immaculate and likewise blessed Virgin, who art the
sinless Mother of thy Son, the mighty Lord of the universe,
thou who art inviolate and altogether holy, the hope of the
hopeless and sinful, we sing thy praises. We bless thee, as
full of every grace, thou who didst bear the God-Man: we bow
low before thee; we invoke thee and implore thine aid. Rescue
us, O holy and inviolate Virgin, from every necessity that
presses upon us and from all the temptations of the devil.

Be our intercessor and advocate at the hour of death and
judgment; deliver us from the fire that is not extinguished
and form the outer darkness; make us worthy of the glory of
thy Son, O dearest and most clement Virgin Mother. Thou indeed
art our only hope most sure and sacred in God's sight, to Whom
be honor and glory and majesty and dominion for ever and ever
world without end. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


       ----Oratio Sancti Sophronii ad Benedictam Virginem
Mariam----
       ----Prayer of St. Sophronius to the Blessed Virgin Mary-
---

This prayer is taken from the writings of St. Sophronius(c.
560-638), Patriarch of Jerusalem. The prayer here appears in
the Little Office of the Blessed Virgin Mary and in the second
reading for Matins from the common of the Blessed Virgin Mary
in the Liturgy of the Hours.


Vere benedicta tu in mulieribus, quoniam Evae maledictionem in
benedictionem commutasti; quoniam Adam, qui prius iacebat
exsecratione perculsus, ut per te benediceretur, effecisti.

Vere benedicta tu in mulieribus, quoniam benedictio Patris per
te affulsit hominibus, eosque a vetere maledicto liberavit.

Vere benedicta tu in mulieribus, quia per te progenitores tui
salutem inveniunt; tu siquidem genitura es Servatorem, qui
divinam ipsis salutem comparabit.

Vere benedicta tu in mulieribus, quoniam sine semine eum
protulisti fructum, qui benedictionem terrarum orbi elargitur,
ipsumque a maledictione spinas germinante redimit.

Vere benedicta tu in mulieribus, quia, mulier naturali
condicione cum sis, Dei tamen Genitrix reispa fies. Etenim si
qui ex te nasciturus est, secundum veritatem, Deus est
incarnatus, ipsa iure meritoque diceris Deipara, quippe quae
Deum verissime paris. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Truly, thou art blessed among women. For thou hast changed
Eve's curse into a blessing; and Adam, who hitherto lay under
a curse, has been blessed because of thee.

Truly, thou art blessed among women. Through thee the Father's
blessing has shone forth on mankind, setting them free of
their ancient curse.

Truly, thou art blessed among women, because through thee thy
forebears have found salvation. For thou wert to give birth to
the Savior who was to win them salvation.

Truly, thou art blessed among women, for without seed thou
hast borne, as thy fruit, Him who bestows blessings on the
whole world and redeems it from that curse that made it sprout
horns.

Truly, thou art blessed among women, because, though a woman
by nature, thou wilt become, in reality, God's mother. If He
whom thou art to bear is truly God made flesh, then rightly do
we call thee God's mother. For thou hast truly given birth to
God. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                   ----Quem terra, pontus, aethera----
                   ----The God Whom Earth and Sea and Sky----

This hymn was composed by Venantius Fortunatus (530-609), the
Bishop of Poitiers. It has been an important part of the
devotions to the Blessed Virgin Mary in the Liturgy and
appears in medieval Books of the Hours which contain the
Little Office of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Today it is recited
on Friday Lauds and daily at Matins for the Little Office of
the Blessed Virgin Mary. It is also the hymn in the Breviary
for Matins in the common of the Blessed Virgin  Mary.

Quem terra, pontus, aethera*,
Colunt, adorant, praedicant,
Trinam regentem machinam
Claustrum Mariae baiulat.
Cui Luna, Sol, et omnia
Deserviunt per tempora,
Perfusa coeli gratia,
Gestant Puellae viscera.
Beata Mater, munere,
Cuius supernus Artifex,
Mundum pugillo continens,
Ventris sub arca clausus est.
Beata coeli nuntio,
Fecunda Sancto Spiritu,
Desideratus Gentibus,
Cuius per alvum fusus est.
Iesu, Tibi sit gloria,
Qui natus es de Virigine,
Cum Patre, et almo Spiritu,
In sempiterna saecula. Amen.
          ---------------------


The God whom earth, and sea, and sky
Adore, and laud, and magnify,
Who o'er their threefold system reigns,
The Virgin Mary's womb contains.
The God whose will by moon, and sun,
And all things in due course is done,
Is borne upon a Maiden's breast,
By fullest heavenly grace possessed.
How blest that Mother, in whose shrine
The great Artificer Divine,
Whose hand contains the earth and sky,
Vouchsafed, as in His ark, to lie.
Blest, in the message Gabriel brought;
Blest, by the work the Spirit wrought;
>From whom the great Desire of earth
Took human flesh and human birth.
To Thee be sung eternal praise,
O Virgin-born, through endless days;
Whom with the Father we adore,
And Holy Ghost for evermore. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


             ----Sancta Maria, Succurre Miseris----
             ----Holy Mary, be Thou a Help to the Helpless----

A partial indulgece is attached to this prayer from the old
Roman Breviary.

Sancta Maria, succurre miseris, iuva pusillanimes, refove
flebiles, ora pro populo, interveni pro clero, intercede pro
devoto femineo sexu: sentiant omnes tuum iuvamen, quicumque
celebrant tuam sanctam commemorationem. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Holy Mary, be thou a help to the helpless, strength to the
fearful, comfort to the sorrowful, pray for the people, plead
for the clergy, intercede for all holy women consecrated to
God; may all who keep thy sacred commemoration feel the might
of thine assistance. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


              ----Sanctissima Virgo de Coenaculo----
              ----Our Lady of the Cenacle----

Sanctissima Virgo de Coenaculo, Mater nostra, immaculata
Maria, impetra nobis, humiliter deprecamur, Spiritus Sancti
dona, ut in caritate viventes et in oratio unanimiter
perservantes, duce te et magistra, ad maiorem Dei gloriam,
exemplo et opere animarum saluti adlaborare et ad vitam
ingredi mereamur aeternum.

Adsis propitia, nostra Domina de Coenaculo, in praesenti
necessitate et tua nos virtute succurre, ut eam, quam enixe
rogamus, gratiam omnipotens et misericors Deus tuis precibus
indulgere dignetur. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Most Holy Virgin of the Cenacle, our Mother, Mary immaculate,
obtain for us, we humbly pray, the gifts of the Holy Spirit,
that we may live in charity and persevere with one accord in
prayer, under thy guidance and teaching, to the greater glory
of God, and that we may labor both by word and deed for the
salvation of souls and may deserve to enter into everlasting
life.

Graciously be near us, O our Lady of the Cenacle, in our
present needs, and succor us by thy power, that Almighty God
may be pleased to grant us, through thy pleading, the favor we
earnestly pray. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Stabat Mater----
                         ----At the Cross Her Station Keeping-
---

Stabat Mater is thought to have originated in the 13th or 14th
century during the peak of Franciscan devotion to the
crucified Jesus. It has been attributed to Pope Innocent II
(d. 1216), St. Bonaventure, or more commonly Jacopone da Todi
(d. 1306). In 1727 it was prescribed as a Sequence for the
Mass of the Seven Sorrows of Mary (September 15) where it is
still used today. In addition to the Mass for this Memorial,
it is the hymn for Matins, Lauds, and Vespers. Stabat Mater is
also frequently associated with devotions of the Stations of
the Cross.

Stabat Mater dolorosa
Iuxta Crucem lacrimosa,
Dum pendebat Filius.
Cuius animam gementem,
Constristatam et dolentem
Pertransivit gladius.
O, quam tristis et afflicta
Fuit illa benedicta,
Mater Unigeniti!
Quae maerebat et dolebat,
Pia Mater, dum videbat
Nati poenas inclyti.
Quis est homo qui non fleret,
Matrem Christi si videret
In tanto supplicio?
Quis non posset contristari
Christi Matrem contemplari
Dolentem cum Filio?
Pro peccatis suae gentis
Vidit Iesum in tormentis,
Et flagellis subditum.
Vidit suum dulcem Natum
Moriendo desolatum,
Dum emisit spiritum.
Eia, Mater, fons amoris
Me sentire vim doloris
Fac, ut tecum lugeam.
Fac, ut ardeat cor meum
In amando Christum Deum
Ut sibi complaceam.
Sancta Mater, istud agas,
Crucifixi fige plagas
Cordi meo valide.
Tui Nati vulnerati,
Tam dignati pro me pati,
Poenas mecum divide.
Fac me tecum pie flere,
Crucifixo condolere,
Donec ego vixero.
Iuxta Crucem tecum stare,
Et me tibi sociare
In planctu desidero.
Virgo virginum praeclara,
Mihi iam non sis amara,
Fac me tecum plangere.
Fac, ut portem Christi mortem,
Passionis fac consortem,
Et plagas recolere.
Fac me plagis vulnerari,
Fac me Cruce inebriari,
Et cruore Filii.
Flammis ne urar succensus,
Per te, Virgo, sim defensus
In die iudicii.
Christe, cum sit hinc exire,
Da per Matrem me venire
Ad palmam victoriae.
Quando corpus morietur,
Fac, ut animae donetur
Paradisi gloria.
Amen.
      ---------------------


At the Cross her station keeping,
Stood the mournful Mother weeping,
Close to Jesus to the last.
Through her heart, His sorrow sharing,
All His bitter anguish bearing,
Lo! the piercing sword has passed.
O how sad and sore distressed
Was that Mother, highly blessed,
Of the sole-begotten One.
Woe-begotten with heart's prostration,
Mother meek, the bitter Passion
Saw she of her glorious Son.
Who on Christ's dear Mother gazing,
In her trouble so amazing,
Born of woman, would not weep?
Who on Christ's dear Mother thinking,
Such a cup of sorrow drinking,
Would not share her sorrow deep?
For His people's sins rejected,
Saw her Jesus unprotected,
Saw with thorns, with scourges rent:
Saw her Son from judgment taken,
Her Beloved in death forsaken,
Till His spirit forth He sent.
Fount of love and holy sorrow,
Mother! may my spirit borrow
Somewhat of thy woe profound;
Unto Christ, with pure emotion,
Raise my contrite heart's devotion,
Love to read in every wound.
Those five wounds on Jesus smitten,
Mother! in my heart be written,
Deep as in thine own they be;
Thou, thy Savior's Cross who bearest,
Thou, thy Son's rebuke who sharest.
Let me share them both with thee.
In the Passion of my Maker,
Be my sinful soul partaker,
Weep till death and weep with thee;
Mime with thee be that sad station,
There to watch the great salvation,
Wrought upon the atoning tree.
Virgin, thou of virgins fairest,
May thy bitter woe thou bearest,
Make on me impression deep.
Thus Christ's dying may I carry,
With Him in His Passion tarry,
And His wounds in memory keep.
May His wound both wound and heal me,
He enkindle, cleanse anneal me,
Be His Cross my hope and stay.
May He when the mountains quiver,
>From that flame which burns for ever,
Shield me on the judgment day.
Jesus, may Thy Cross defend me,
And Thy Mother's prayer befriend me,
Let me die in Thy embrace;
When to dust my dust returneth,
Grant a soul that to Thee yearneth,
In Thy paradise a place. Amen.
(tr. cento)
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                     ----Sub Tuum Praesidium----
                     ----We Fly to Thy Patronage----

An ancient prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mary, of which the
oldest known version was found on an Egyptian papyrus from the
3rd century. This prayer is used in Litanies to the Blessed
Mother and as a concluding prayer to Compline. A partial
indulgence is granted to the faithful who recite it.

Sub tuum praesidium, Sancta Dei Genitrix. Nostras
deprecationes ne despicias in necesitatibus, sed a periculis
cunctis libera nos semper, Virgo gloriosa et benedicta. Amen.
                         ---------------------

We fly to thy patronage, O holy Mother of God; despise not
thou our petitions in our necessities, but deliver us always
from all dangers, O glorious and blessed Virgin. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                 ----Tota pulchra es, Maria----
                 ----Thou Art All Fair, O Mary----

Tota pulchra es, Maria,
Et macula originalis non est in te.
Tu gloria Ierusalem,
Tu laetitia Israel,
Tu honorificentia populi nosti,
Tu advocata peccatorum.
O Maria,
O Maria,
Virgo prudentissima,
Mater clementissima,
Ora pro nobis,
Intercede pro nobis ad Dominum Iesum Christum.
Amen.
   ---------------------


Thou art all fair, O Mary,
The original stain is not in thee.
Thou art the glory of Jerusalem,
Thou, the joy of Israel,
Thou, the great honor of our people
Thou, the advocate of sinners.
O Mary,
O Mary,
Virgin most prudent,
Mother most merciful,
Pray for us,
Intercede for us with our Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
The Angels
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                         ----Angele Dei----
                         ----Angel of God----

Angele Dei, also know as the Prayer to One's Guardian Angel,
carries a partial indulgence. Guardian Angels defend those to
whom they have been charged to protect against the assaults of
demons to preserve their charges from sin. October 2 is the
memorial to the Guardian Angels.

Angele Dei, qui custos est mihi,
me tibi commissum pietate superna;
(hac nocte, hodie) illumina, custodi, rege, et guberna. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Angel of God, my guardian dear,
To whom his love commits me here;
Ever this day be at my side,
To light and guard, to rule and guide. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----

                              ----Exaudi nos----
                                 ----Hear us----

This prayer from the Roman Ritual is graced with a partial
indulgence.

Exaudi nos, Domine sancte, Pater omnipotens, aeternae Deus: et
mittere digneris sanctum Angelum tuum de caelis, qui
custodiat, foveat, protegat, visitet atque defendat omnes
habitantes in hoc habitaculo. Per Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
                         ---------------------


Hear us, O Holy Lord, Almighty Father, eternal God: and deign
to send Thy holy angel from heaven to guard, cherish, protect,
visit, and defend all who dwell in this house. Through Christ
our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                    ----Oratio ad Sanctum Michael----
                    ----Prayer to Saint Michael----

Composed by Pope Leo XIII.

Sancte Michael Archangele, defende nos in proelio, contra
nequitiam et insidias diaboli esto praesidium. Imperet illi
Deus, supplices deprecamur: tuque, Princeps militiae
coelestis, Satanam aliosque spiritus malignos, qui ad
perditionem animarum pervagantur in mundo, divina virtute, in
infernum detrude. Amen.
                         ---------------------

St. Michael the Archangel, defend us in battle; be our defense
against the wickedness and snares of the devil. May God rebuke
him, we humbly pray. And do you, O prince of the heavenly
host, by the power of God thrust into hell Satan and all the
evil spirits who prowl about the world for the ruin of souls.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Te splendor et virtus Patris----

Te splendor et virtus Patris
Te vita, Iesu, cordium,
Ab ore qui pendent tuo,
Laudamus inter Angelos.
Tibi mille densa millium
Ducum corona militat;
Sed explicat victor Crucem
Michael salutis Signifer.
Draconis hic dirum caput
In ima pellit tartara,
Ducemque cum rebellibus
Caelesti ab arce fulminat.
Contra ducem superbiae
Sequamur hunc nos Principem,
Ut detur ex Agni throno
Nobis corona gloriae.
Patri, simulque Filio,
Tibique, Sancte Spiritus,
Sicut fuit, sit iugiter
Saeculum per omne gloria. Amen.

Princeps gloriosissime Michael Archangele, esto memor nostri;
hic et ubique semper precare  pro nobis Filium Dei.

V. In conspectu Angelorum psallam tibi, Deus meus:
R. Adorabo ad templum sanctum tuum, et confitebor nomini tuo.

Oremus; Deus, qui miro ordine Angelorum ministeria hominumque
dispensas, concede propitius, ut a quibus tibi ministrantibus
in caelo semper assistitur, ab his in terra vita nostra
muniatur. Per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------


O Jesus! life-spring of the soul!
The Father's Power and Glory bright!
Thee with Angels we extol;
>From Thee they draw their life and light.
Thy thousand, thousand hosts are spread,
Embattled o'er the azure sky;
But Michael bears Thy standard dread,
And lifts the mighty Cross on high.
He in that sign the rebel powers
Did with their dragon prince expel:
And hurled them from heaven's high towers.
Down like a thunderbolt to hell.
Grant us with Michael still, O Lord,
Against the Prince of Pride to fight;
So may a crown be our reward,
Before the Lamb's pure throne of light.
To God the Father and the Son
And Holy Paraclete to Thee,
As evermore hath been before,
Be glory through eternity. Amen.

Most glorious Prince, Michael the Archangel, be ever mindful
of us; here and everywhere pray always for us to the Son of
God.

V. Before the Angels will I sing praise unto Thee, O my God.
R. I will worship at Thy holy temple, and praise Thy name.

Let us pray; O God, who in wondrous order dost ordain and
constitute the services of men and Angels; mercifully grant
that our life may be defended on earth by them that stand near
Thee, evermore ministering to Thee in heaven. Through Christ
our Lord. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Saint Joseph
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                         ----Ad te Beate Ioseph----
                         ----To you, O blessed Joseph----

A partial indulgence is attached to this prayer.

Ad te beate Ioseph, in tribulatione nostra confugimus, atque,
implorato Sponsae tuae sanctissimae auxilio, patrocinium
quoque tuum fidenter exposcimus. Per eam, quaesumus quae te
cum immaculata Virgine Dei Genitrice coniunxit, caritatem,
perque paternum, quo Puerum Iesum amplexus es, amorem,
supplices deprecamur, ut ad hereditatem, quam Iesus Christus
acquisivit Sanguine suo, benignus respicias, ac necessitatibus
nostris tua virtute et ope succurras.

Tuere, o Custos providentissime divinae Familiae, Iesu Christi
sobolem electam; prohibe a nobis, amantissime Pater, omnem
errorum ac corruptelarum luem; propitius nobis, sospitator
noster fortissime, in hoc cum potestate tenebrarum certamine e
caelo adesto; et sicut olim Puerum Iesum e summo eripuisti
vitae discrimine, ita nunc Ecclesiam sanctam Dei ab hostilibus
insidiis atque ab omni adversitate defende: nosque singulos
perpetuo tege patrocinio, ut ad tui exemplar et ope tua
suffulti, sancte vivere, pie emori, sempiternamque in caelis
beatitudinem assequi possimus. Amen.
                         ---------------------

To you, O blessed Joseph, do we come in our tribulation, and
having implored the help of your most holy Spouse, we
confidently invoke your patronage also. Through that charity
which bound you to the immaculate Virgin Mother of God and
through the paternal love with which you embraced the Child
Jesus, we humbly beg you graciously to regard the inheritance
which Jesus Christ has purchased by his Blood, and with your
power and strength to aid us in our necessities.

O most watchful Guardian of the Holy Family, defend the chosen
children of Jesus Christ; O most loving father, ward off from
us every contagion of error and corrupting influence; O our
most mighty protector, be propitious to us and from heaven
assist us in our struggle with the power of darkness; and, as
once you rescued the Child Jesus from deadly peril, so now
protect God's Holy Church from the snares of the enemy and
from all adversity; shield, too, each one of us by your
constant protection, so that, supported by your example and
your aid, we may be able to live piously, to die holily, and
to obtain eternal happiness in heaven. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Litania Sancti Ioseph----
                         ----Litany of St. Joseph----

The Litany of Saint Joseph was approved for public use by Pop
St. Pius X in 1909. It is model after the Litany of Loreto and
contains 21 invocations to St. Joseph which describe his
virtues and the part he played as the foster father of Jesus.
The Litany has a partial indulgence attached.

Leader
Congregation,

Kyrie, eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.
Christe, eleison.
Christe, eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.
Christe, audi nos.                                    Christe,
audi nos.
Christe, exaudi nos.                                Christe,
exaudi nos.
Pater de caelis, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Fili, Redemptor mundi, Deus,
miserere nobis.
Spiritus Sancte Deus,
miserere nobis.
Sancta Trintitas, unus Deus,
miserere nobis.
Sancta Maria,                                             ora
pro nobis.
Sancte Ioseph,                                            ora
pro nobis.
Proles David inclyta,                                     ora
pro nobis.
Lumen Patiracharum,                                       ora
pro nobis.
Dei Genitricis Sponse,                                    ora
pro nobis.
Custos pudice Virginis,                                   ora
pro nobis.
Filii Dei nutricie,                                       ora
pro nobis.
Christi defensor sedule,                                  ora
pro nobis.
Almae Familae praeses,                                    ora
pro nobis.
Ioseph iustissime,                                        ora
pro nobis.
Ioseph castissime,                                        ora
pro nobis.
Ioseph prudentissime,                                     ora
pro nobis.
Ioseph fortissime,                                        ora
pro nobis.
Ioseph obedientissime,                                    ora
pro nobis.
Ioseph fidelissime,                                       ora
pro nobis.
Speculum patientiae,                                      ora
pro nobis.
Amator paupertatis,                                       ora
pro nobis.
Exemplar opificum,                                        ora
pro nobis.
Domesticae vitae decus,                                   ora
pro nobis.
Custos virginum,                                          ora
pro nobis.
Familiarum columen,                                       ora
pro nobis.
Solatium miserorum,                                       ora
pro nobis.
Spes aegrotantium,                                        ora
pro nobis.
Patrone morientium,                                       ora
pro nobis.
Terror daemonum,                                          ora
pro nobis.
Protector sanctae Ecclesiae,                              ora
pro nobis.
Angus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,                parce
nobis, Domine.
Angus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,               exaudi
nobis, Domine.
Angus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi,
miserere nobis.

V. Constituit eum dominum domus suae.
R. Et principem omnis possesionis suae.

Oremus: Deus, qui in ineffabili providentia beatum Ioseph
sanctissimae Genitricis tuae Sponsum eligere dignatus es;
praesta, quaesumus; ut quem protectorem veneramur in terris,
intercessorem habere mereamur in caelis: Qui vivis et regnas
in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------


Lord, have mercy on us.                          Lord, have
mercy on us.
Christ, have mercy on us.                      Christ, have
mercy on us.
Lord, have mercy on us.                          Lord, have
mercy on us.
Christ, hear us.
Christ, hear us.
Christ, graciously hear us.                  Christ,
graciously hear us.
God the Father of heaven,                              have
mercy on us.
God the Son, Redeemer of the world,                    have
mercy on us.
God the Holy Spirit,                                   have
mercy on us.
Holy Trinity, one God,                                 have
mercy on us.
Holy Mary,
pray for us.
St. Joseph,
pray for us.
Renowned offspring of David,
pray for us.
Light of Patriarchs,
pray for us.
Spouse of the Mother of God,
pray for us.
Chaste guardian of the Virgin,
pray for us.
Foster father of the Son of God,
pray for us.
Diligent protector of Christ,
pray for us.
Head of the Holy Family,
pray for us.
Joseph most just,
pray for us.
Joseph most chaste,
pray for us.
Joseph most prudent,
pray for us.
Joseph most strong,
pray for us.
Joseph, most obedient,
pray for us.
Joseph most faithful,
pray for us.
Mirror of patience,
pray for us.
Lover of poverty,
pray for us.
Model of artisans,
pray for us.
Glory of home life,
pray for us.
Guardian of virgins,
pray for us.
Pillar of families,
pray for us.
Solace of the wretched,
pray for us.
Hope of the sick,
pray for us.
Patron of the dying,
pray for us.
Terror of the demons,
pray for us.
Protector of Holy Church,
pray for us.
Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world,     spare
us, O Lord.
Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world,
                                             graciously hear
us, O Lord.
Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world,     have
mercy on us.

V. He made him the lord of his household.
R. And prince over all his possessions.

Let us pray: O God, in Thy ineffable providence Thou wert
pleased to choose Blessed Joseph to be the spouse of Thy most
holy Mother, grant, we beg Thee, that we may be worthy to have
him for our intercessor in heaven whom on earth we venerate as
our Protector; Thou who livest and reignest forever and ever.
Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                 ----Memento nostri, beate Ioseph----
                 ----Be mindful of us, O Blessed Joseph----

Written by St. Bernardine of Siena (1380-1444, feat May 20th).
The prayer appears at the end of his writtings uhat are used
for Matins for the Feast of St. Joseph (March 19).

Memento nostri, beate Ioseph, et tuae orationis  suffragio
apud tuum putativum Filium intercede; sed et beatissimam
Virginem Sponsam tuam nobis propitiam redde, quae Mater est
Eius, qui cum Patre et Spiritu Sancto vivit et regnat per
infinita saecula saeculorum. Amen.
            ----------------------------

Be mindful of us, O Blessed Joseph, and intercede for us wit
thy foster-Son by the pleading of thy prayer: do thou, in like
manner, render the blessed Virgin Mary thy Spouse, gracious
unto us, for she is the Mother of Him, who with the Father and
the Holy Ghost liveth and reigneth world without end. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                   ----Oratio ad Sanctum Ioseph ----
                   ----Prayer to St. Joseph----

This is one of the more popular prayers to St. Joseph. It is
used after Mass and in conjunction with the Cord of St.
Joseph.

Virginum custos et pater, sancte Ioseph, cuius fideli
custodiae ipsa Innocentia Christus Iesus et Virgo virginum
Maria commisa fuit; te per hoc utrumque carissimum pignus
Iesum et Mariam obsecro et obtestor, ut me, ab omni immunditia
praeservatum, mente incontaminata, puro corde et casto corpore
Iesu et Mariae semper facias castissime famulari. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Guardian of virgins, and holy father Joseph, to whose faithful
custody Christ Jesus, Innocence itself, and Mary, Virgin of
virgins, were committed; I pray and beseech thee, by these
dear pledges, Jesus and Mary, that, being preserved from all
uncleanness, I may with spotless mind, pure heart, and chaste
body, ever serve Jesus and Mary most chastely all the days of
my life. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----Te Ioseph celebrent agmina
caelitum----
                         ----Joseph----! To Thee by Hosts on
High

This 17th century hymn is used for the feast of St. Joseph,
Husband of the Blessed Virgin Mary, (March 19) and then again
on May 1 (St. Joseph the Worker) for Vespers.

Te, Ioseph, celebrant agmina caelitum,
Te cuncti resonent Christiadum chori,
Qui, clarus meritis, iunctus es inclitae,
Casto foedere Virgini.
Almo cum tumidam germine coniugem
admirans dubio tangeris anxius,
Afflatu superi Flaminis, Angelus
Conceptum puerum docet.
Tu natum Dominum stringis, ad exteras
Aegypti profugum tu sequeris plagas;
Amissum Solymis quaeris et invenis,
Miscens gaudia fletibus.
Electos reliquos mors pia consecrat
Palmamque emeritos gloria suscipit;
Tu vivens, Superis par, frueris Deo,
Mira sorte beatior.
Nobis, summa Trias, parce precantibus;
Da Ioseph meritis sidera scandere,
Ut tandem liceat nos tibi perpetim
Gratum promere canticum.
Amen.
     ---------------------


Joseph! to thee by hosts on high
And choirs of Christians, laud be paid!
Saintly of life, -by purest tie
Joined unto her, the glorious Maid.
When thou didst doubt they wife's repute,
And mark her great with motherhood,
The angel taught thee that her fruit
Came from the Holy Ghost of God.
To clasp the Son, the Lord, was thine,
To share His flight to Egypt's shore,
With tears, to seek in Salem's shrine
Him lost, -with joy, to find once more.
Death brings to other Saints their rest;
Through toil they win the victor's place;
Thou happier, like the Angels blest,
Alive, hast seen God face to face.
Spare us, O Trinity most High!
Grant that, with Joseph, we may gain
Thy starry realm, and ceaselessly
There raise to Thee our thankful strain.
Amen.    (tr. R.F. Littledale)
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
The Holy Family
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


               ----Oratio ad Familiam Sanctam----
               ----Prayer to the Holy Family----

Devotion to the Holy Family became popular in the 17th
century. In 1921 the Feast honoring the Holy Family was
established for the Universal Church on the first Sunday after
Epiphany. Today the Feast of the Holy Family is celebrated on
the first Sunday after Christmas, unless Christmas itself
falls on a Sunday, then the celebration is moved to December
30.

Domine Iesu Christe, qui Mariae et Ioseph subditus, domesticam
vitam ineffabilibus virtutibus consecrasti: fac nos, utriusque
auxilio, Familae sanctae tuae exemplis instrui et consortium
consequi sempiternum: Qui vivis et regnas in saecula
saeculorum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Lord Jesus Christ, who, being made subject to Mary and Joseph,
didst consecrate domestic life by Thine ineffable virtues;
grant that we, with the assistance of both, may be taught by
the example of Thy Holy Family and may attain to its
everlasting fellowship. Who livest and reignest forever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
The Saints
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


                         ----Litaniae Sanctorum ----;
The Litaniae Sanctorum, Litany of the Saints, is the oldest
litany we possess and is the model for all the others. It was
used as early as 590. Pope St. Gregory prescribed its usage
for a public procession of thanksgiving. The form below, of
course, has been updated to reflect the current Church
calendar, but its basic form relies on the original 6th
century litany. A partial indulgence is attached to the Litany
of the Saints.


I. SUPPLICATIO AD DEUM
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Christe eleison.                                   Kyrie,
eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
-or-
Pater de caelis Deus,                              Miserere
nobis.
Fili Redemptor mundi Deus,                         Miserere
nobis.
Spiritus Sancte Deus,                              Miserere
nobis.
II. INVOCATIO SANCTORUM
Sancta Maria,                                       ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Dei Genetrix,                                ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Virgo virginem,                              ora pro
nobis.
Sancti Michael, Gabriel, et Raphael,              orate pro
nobis.
(Patriarchae et prophetae)
Sancte Abraham,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Moyses,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Elia,                                        ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Ioannes Baptista,                            ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Ioseph,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Omnes sancti patriarche et prophetae,             orate pro
nobis.
(Apostoli et discipuli)
Sancti Petre et Paule,                            orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Andrea,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Sancti Ioannes et Iacobe,                         orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Thoma,                                       ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Matthaee,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Omnes sancti Apostoli,                            orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Luca,                                        ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Marce,                                       ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Barnaba,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Maria Magdalena,                           orate pro
nobis.
Omnes sancti discipuli Domini,                    orate pro
nobis.
(Martyres)
Sancte Stephane,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Ignati (Antiochene),                         ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Polycarpe,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Iustine,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Laurente,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Cypriane,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Bonifati,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Stanislaus,                                  ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Thoma (Becket),                              ora pro
nobis.
Sancti Ioannes (Fisher) et Thoma (More),          orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Paule (Miki),                                ora pro
nobis.
Sancti Iannes (de Brebeuf) et Isaac (Jogues),     orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Petre (Chanel),                              ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Carole (Lwanga),                             ora pro
nobis.
Sanctae Perpetua et Felicitas,                    orate pro
nobis.
Sancta Agnes,                                       ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Maria (Goretti),                             ora pro
nobis.
Omnes sancti martyres,                            orate pro
nobis.
(Episcopi et doctores)
Sancti Leo et Gregori,                            orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Ambrosi,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Hieronyme,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Augustine,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Athanasi,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Sancti Basili et Gregori (Nazianzene),            orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Ioannes Chrysostome,                         ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Martine,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Patrici,                                     ora pro
nobis.
Sancti Cyrille et Methodi,                        orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Carole (Borromeo),                           ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Francisce (de Sales),                        ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Pie (Decime),                                ora pro
nobis.
(Presbyteri et religiosi)
Sancte Antoni,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Benedicte,                                   ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Bernarde,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Sancti Francisce et Dominice,                     orate pro
nobis.
Sancte Thoma (de Aquino),                           ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Ignati (de Loyola),                          ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Francisce (Xavier),                          ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Vincenti (de Paul),                          ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Ioannes Maria (Vianney),                     ora pro
nobis.
Sancte Ioannes (Bosco),                             ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Catharina (Senensis),                        ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Teresia (de Avila),                          ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Rosa (de Lima),                              ora pro
nobis.
(Laici)
Sancte Lodovice,                                    ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Monica,                                      ora pro
nobis.
Sancta Elisabeth (Hungariae),                       ora pro
nobis.
Omnes Sancti et Sanctae Dei,                      orate pro
nobis.
III. INVOCATIO AD CHRISTUM
Propitius esto,                                libera nos,
Domine.
Ab omni malo,                                  libera nos,
Domine.
Ab omni peccato,                               libera nos,
Domine.
Ab insidiis diaboli,                           libera nos,
Domine.
Ab ira et odio et omni mala voluntate,         libera nos,
Domine.
A morte perpetua,                              libera nos,
Domine.
Per incarnationem tuam,                        libera nos,
Domine.
Per nativitaetem tuam,                         libera nos,
Domine.
Per baptismum et sanctum ieiunium tuum,        libera nos,
Domine.
Per crucem et passionem tuam,                  libera nos,
Domine.
Per mortem et sepulturam tuam,                 libera nos,
Domine.
Per sanctam resurrectionem tuam,               libera nos,
Domine.
Per admirabilem ascensionem tuam,              libera nos,
Domine.
Per effusionem Spritus Sancti,                 libera nos,
Domine.
Per gloriosum adventum tuum,                   libera nos,
Domine.
-or-
Christe, Fili Dei vivi,                            miserere
nobis.
Qui in hunc mundum venisti,                        miserere
nobis.
Qui in cruce pependisti,                           miserere
nobis.
Qui in mortem propter nos accepisti,               miserere
nobis.
Qui in sepulcro iacuisti,                          miserere
nobis.
Qui in caelos ascendisti,                          miserere
nobis.
Qui Spiritum Sanctum in Apostolos misisti,         miserere
nobis.
Qui sedes ad dexteram Patris,                      miserere
nobis.
Qui venturus es iudicare vivos et mortuos,         miserere
nobis.
IV. SUPPLICATIO PRO VARIIS NECESSITATIBUS
Ut nobis parcas,                             te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut ad veram paenitentiam nos perducere
     digneris,                               te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut nosmetipsos in tuo sancto servitio
     confortare et conservare digneris,      te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut omnibus benefactoribus nostris
     sempiterna bona retribuas,              te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut fructus terrae dare et conservare
     digneris,                               te rogamus, audi
nos.
-or-
Ut nobis indulgeas,                          te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut mentes nostras ad caelestia
     desideria erigas,                       te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut animas nostras, fratrum, propinquorum
     et benefactorum nostrorum ab aeterna
     damnatione eripias,                     te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut omnibus fidelibus defunctis requiem
     aeternam donare digneris,               te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut mundum a peste, fame et bello
     servare digneris,                       te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut cunctis populis pacem et veram
     concordiam donare digneris,             te rogamus, audi
nos.
(Precationes sequentes semper cantantur)
Ut ecclesiam tuam sanctam regere et
     conservare digneris,                    te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut domnum apostolicum et omnes
     ecclesiasticos ordines in sancta
     religione conservare digneris,          te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut omnibus in Christum credentibus
     unitatem largiri digneris,              te rogamus, audi
nos.
Ut omnes homines ad Evangelii lumen
     perducere digneris,                     te rogamus, audi
nos.
V. CONCLUSIO
Christe,                                                 audi
nos.
Christe,                                                 audi
nos.
Christe,                                               exaudi
nos.
Christe,                                               exaudi
nos.
-or-
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi.               Miserere
nobis.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi.               Miserere
nobis.
Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi.               Miserere
nobis.
Christe,                                                 audi
nos.
Christe,                                                 audi
nos.
Christe,                                               exaudi
nos.
Christe,                                               exaudi
nos.
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Christe, eleison.                                  Kyrie,
eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Oratio
Deus, refugium nostrum et virtus, adesto piis Ecclesiae tuae
precibus, auctor ipse pietatis, et praesta, ut, quod fideliter
petimus, efficaciter consequamur.  Per Christum Dominum
nostrum.
-or-
Deus, qui nos conspicis ex nostra infirmitate deficere, ad
amorem tui nominis nos misericorditer per sanctorum tuorum
exempla restaura. Per Christum Dominum nostrum.
                  ------------------------------


I. SUPPLICATION TO GOD
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Christe eleison.                                   Kyrie,
eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
-or-
Heavenly Father, God,                            have mercy on
us.
Son, Saviour of the World, God,                  have mercy on
us.
Holy Spirit, God,                                have mercy on
us.
II. TO THE SAINTS
Holy Mary,                                            pray for
us.
Holy Mother of God,                                   pray for
us.
Holy Virgin of virgins,                               pray for
us.
Saints Michael, Gabriel and Raphael,                  pray for
us.
(Prophets and patriarchs)
Holy Abraham,                                         pray for
us.
Holy Moses,                                           pray for
us.
Holy Elijah,                                          pray for
us.
Saint John the Baptist,                               pray for
us.
Saint Joseph,                                         pray for
us.
All you holy patriarchs and prophets,                 pray for
us.
(Apostles and disciples)
Saints Peter and Paul,                                pray for
us.
Saint Andrew,                                         pray for
us.
Saints John and Jacob,                                pray for
us.
Saint Thomas,                                         pray for
us.
Saint Matthew,                                        pray for
us.
All you holy apostles,                                pray for
us.
Saint Luke,                                           pray for
us.
Saint Mark,                                           pray for
us.
Saint Barnabas,                                       pray for
us.
Saint Mary Magdalene,                                 pray for
us.
All you holy disciples of the Lord,                   pray for
us.
(Martyrs)
Saint Stephen,                                        pray for
us.
Saint Ignatius (of Antioch),                          pray for
us.
Saint Polycarp,                                       pray for
us.
Saint Justin,                                         pray for
us.
Saint Lawrence,                                       pray for
us.
Saint Cyprian,                                        pray for
us.
Saint Boniface,                                       pray for
us.
Saint Stanislaus,                                     pray for
us.
Saint Thomas (Becket),                                pray for
us.
Saints John (Fisher) and Thomas (More),               pray for
us.
Saint Paul (Miki),                                    pray for
us.
Saint John (Brebeuf) and Isaac (Jogues),              pray for
us.
Saint Peter (Chanel),                                 pray for
us.
Saint Charles (Lwanga),                               pray for
us.
Saints Perpetua and Felicity,                         pray for
us.
Saint Agnes,                                          pray for
us.
Saint Maria (Goretti),                                pray for
us.
All you holy martyrs,                                 pray for
us.
(Bishops and doctors)
Saints Leo and Gregory,                               pray for
us.
Saint Ambrose,                                        pray for
us.
Saint Hieronymus,                                     pray for
us.
Saint Augustine,                                      pray for
us.
Saint Athanasius,                                     pray for
us.
Saints Basil and Gregory (of Nazianus),               pray for
us.
Saint John Chrysostom,                                pray for
us.
Saint Martin,                                         pray for
us.
Saint Patrick,                                        pray for
us.
Saints Cyril and Methodius,                           pray for
us.
Saint Charles (Borromeo),                             pray for
us.
Saint Francis (de Sales),                             pray for
us.
Saint Pius (the Tenth),                               pray for
us.
(Priests and religious)
Saint Anthony,                                        pray for
us.
Saint Benedict,                                       pray for
us.
Saint Bernard,                                        pray for
us.
Saints Francis and Dominic,                           pray for
us.
Saint Thomas (Aquinas),                               pray for
us.
Saint Ignatius (Loyola),                              pray for
us.
Saint Francis (Xavier),                               pray for
us.
Saint Vincent (de Paul),                              pray for
us.
Saint John Mary (Vianney),                            pray for
us.
Saint John (Bosco),                                   pray for
us.
Saint Catherine (of Siena),                           pray for
us.
Saint Theresa (of Avila),                             pray for
us.
Saint Rose (of Lima),                                 pray for
us.
(Laiety)
Saint Louis,                                          pray for
us.
Saint Monica,                                         pray for
us.
Saint Elizabeth (of Hungary),                         pray for
us.
All you holy saints of God,                           pray for
us.
III. INVOCATION TO CHRIST
Be merciful,                                   deliver us, O
Lord.
>From all evil,                                deliver us, O
Lord.
>From all sin,                                 deliver us, O
Lord.
>From Satan's snares,                          deliver us, O
Lord.
>From anger, hatred, and all ill-will,         deliver us, O
Lord.
>From eternal death,                           deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy Incarnation,                       deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy Birth,                             deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy Baptism and Holy Fast,             deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy Cross and Passion,                 deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy Death and Burial,                  deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy Holy Resurrection,                 deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy wondrous Ascension,                deliver us, O
Lord.
Through the coming of the Holy Spirit,         deliver us, O
Lord.
Through Thy glorious Return,                   deliver us, O
Lord.
-or-
Christ, Son of the Living God,                   have mercy on
us.
Who didst come into this world,                  have mercy on
us.
Who didst hang upon the cross,                   have mercy on
us.
Who didst choose to die for us,                  have mercy on
us.
Who was laid in the tomb,                        have mercy on
us.
Who didst unto heaven ascend,                    have mercy on
us.
Who didst send the Holy Spirit to the Apostle,   have mercy on
us.
Who art seated at the right hand of the Father,  have mercy on
us.
Who will come again to judge the living and
     the dead,                                   have mercy on
us.
IV. SUPPLICATION FOR VARIOUS NEEDS
That Thou might spare us,                    we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to lead us unto
     true repentence,                        we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to comfort and
     preserve those who are in
     Thy holy service,                       we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst repay all our benefactors
     with eternal good,                      we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to give and preserve
     the fruits of the earth,                we ask Thee, hear
us.
-or-
That Thou wouldst forgive us,                we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to raise our
     minds to desire heaven,                 we ask Thee, hear
us.
That from eternal damnation Thou wouldst
     protect our souls, and those of our
     brethren, relatives and benefactors,    we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to give eternal rest
     to all the faithful departed,           we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to save the world
     from plague, famine and war,            we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to give peace and
     true harmony to all peoples,            we ask Thee, hear
us.
(The following are always sung)
That Thou wouldst deign to rule and preserve
     thy Holy Church,                        we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to preserve our
     Apostolic Prelate and all orders
     of the Church in holy religion,         we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to give unity
     to all believers in Christ,             we ask Thee, hear
us.
That Thou wouldst deign to bring all people
            into the light of the Gospel,    we ask Thee, hear
us.
V. CONCLUSION
Christ,                                                   hear
us.
Christ,                                                   hear
us.
Christ,                                        graciously hear
us.
Christ,                                        graciously hear
us.
-or-
Lamb of God, who takes away
     the sins of the world.                      Have mercy on
us.
Lamb of God, who takes away
     the sins of the world.                      Have mercy on
us.
Lamb of God, who takes away
     the sins of the world.                      Have mercy on
us.
Christ,                                                   hear
us.
Christ,                                                   hear
us.
Christ,                                        graciously hear
us.
Christ,                                        graciously hear
us.
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Christe, eleison.                                  Kyrie,
eleison.
Kyrie, eleison.                                    Kyrie,
eleison.
Let us pray:
O God, our refuge and our strength, hear the devoted prayers
of Thy Church, the very origin of faith. Help us, we pray,
that we may follow Thee faithfully. Through Christ our Lord.
-or-
O God, who sees us failing out of our weakness, mercifully
restore us to the love of Thy name through the examples of Thy
saints.


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Various Occasions
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
For Meetings

                         ----Adsumus----
                         ----We have come----

This prayer, which is normally recited at the opening of a
meeting, is enriched with a partial indulgence. The source of
the prayer is the Roman Pontifical.


Adsumus, Domine Sancte Spiritus, adsumus peccati quidem
immanitate detenti, sed in nomine tuo specialiter congregati.
Veni ad nos et esto nobiscum et dignare illabi cordibus
nostris; doce nos quid agamus, quo gradiamur et ostende quid
efficere debeamus, ut, te auxiliante, tibi in omnibus placere
valeamus. Esto solus suggestor et effector iudiciorum
nostrorum, qui solus cum Deo Patre et eius Filio nomen
possides gloriosum.

Non nos patiaris perturbatores esse iustitiae qui summam
diligis aequitatem; non in sinistrum nos ignorantia trahat,
non favor inflectat, non acceptio muneris vel personnae
corrumpat; sed iunge nos tibi efficaciter solius tuae gratiae
dono, ut simus in te unum et in nullo deviemus a vero;
quatenus in nomine tuo collecti, sic in cunctis teneamus cum
moderamine pietatis iustitiam, ut et hic a te in nullo
dissentiat sententia nostra et in futurum pro bene gestis
consequamur praemia sempiterna. Amen.
                         ---------------------


We have come, O God the Holy Spirit, we have come before Thee,
hampered indeed by our many and grievous sins, but for a
special purpose gathered together in Thy name. Come to us and
be with us and enter our hearts. Teach us what we are to do
and where we ought to tend; show us what we must accomplish,
in order that, with Thy help, we may be able to please Thee in
all things. Be Thou alone the author and the finisher of our
judgments, Thou who alone with God the Father and his Son dost
posses a glorious name.

Do not allow us to disturb the order of justice, Thou who
lovest equity above all things. Let not ignorance draw us into
devious paths. Let not partiality sway our minds, nor respect
of riches nor persons pervert our judgment. But unite us to
Thee effectually by the gift of Thy grace alone, that we may
be one in Thee and never forsake the truth; inasmuch as we are
gathered together in Thy name, so may we in all things hold
fast to justice tempered by mercy, so that in this life our
judgment may in no wise be at variance with Thee and in the
life to come we may attain everlasting rewards for deeds well
done. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Thanksgiving

                     ----Agimus tibi gratias----
                     ----We Give Thee Thanks----

Partial Indulgence for this prayer from the Roman Breviary.

Agimus tibi gratias, omnipotens Deus, pro universis beneficiis
tuis; Qui vivis et regnas in saecula saeculorum.
                         ---------------------

We give you thanks, Almighty God, for all your blessings: who
live and reign for ever and ever. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
For Grace
                         ----Concede mihi----
                         ----Grant me Thy Grace----

>From the Imitation of Christ, book. 3, chapter 15, v. 3.

Concede mihi, benignissime Iesu, gratiam tuam, ut mecum sit et
mecum laboret mecumque in finem usque perseveret. Da mihi hoc
semper desiderare et velle, quod tibi magis acceptum est
carius placet. Tua voluntas mea sit, et mea voluntas tuam
semper sequatur, et optime ei concordet. Sit mihi unum velle
et nolle tecum, nec aliud posse velle aut nolle, nisi quod Tu
vis et nolis. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Grant me Thy grace, most merciful Jesus, that it may be with
me and work with me and persevere with me even to the end.
Grant that I may always desire and will that which is to Thee
most acceptable and most dear. Let Thy will be mine, and let
my will ever follow Thine and agree perfectly with it. Let my
willing and not-willing be all one with Thine, and let me not
be able to will or not will anything else but what Thou
willest or willest not. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
For Guidance
                   ----Actiones nostras----
                   ----Direct, we beg you, O Lord----

A partial indulgence is attached to this prayer from the Roman
Ritual. It also appears in the Liturgia Horarum as a final
prayer of Laudes.

Actiones nostras, quaesumus Domine, aspirando praeveni et
adiuvando prosequere: ut cuncta nostra oratio et operatio a te
semper incipiat, et per te coepta finiatur. Per Christum
Dominum nostrum. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Direct, we beg Thee, O Lord, our actions by Thy holy
inspirations, and carry them on by Thy gracious assistance,
that every prayer and work of ours may begin always with Thee,
and through Thee be happily ended. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


                         ----IIllumina, Domine----
                         ----Enlighten, O Lord----

This was written in the 6th century by Verecundus. His works
were edited by Cardinal Pitra, in the Spicilegium Solesmense.
It is a model of clarity and succinctness.

Illumina, Domine nostri cordis obtutus, ut quae digna sunt
videamus, quae autem indigna, vitemus. Amen.

Enlighten, O Lord, the blindness of our hearts, that we may
discern what is worthy and avoid what is unworthy. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

Before and After Meals
                         ----Prex ante prandium----
                         ----Prayer Before Meals----

Traditional prayers before and after meals.

Benedic, Domine, nos et haec tua dona quae de tua largitate
sumus sumpturi. Per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.

Add for midday;
    Mensae coelestis participes faciat nos, Rex aeternae
gloriae. Amen.

Add for evening;
    Ad coenam vitae aeternae perducat nos, Rex aeternae
gloriae. Amen.
                         ---------------------

Bless us, O Lord, and these Thy gifts we are about to receive
from Thy bounty, through Christ our Lord. Amen.

Add for midday;
    May the King of everlasting glory make us partakers of the
heavenly table. Amen.

Add for evening;
    May the King of everlasting glory lead us to the banquet
of life eternal. Amen.

                         ----Prex post prandium----
                         ----Prayer After Meals----

Agimus tibi gratias, omnipotens Deus, pro universis beneficiis
tuis, qui vivis et regnas in saecula saeculorum. Amen.

    V. Deus det nobis suam pacem.
    R. Et vitam aeternam.

Amen.
   !                     ---------------------

We give Thee thanks, almighty God, for all Thy benefits, who
livest and reignest for ever and ever. Amen.

    V. May the Lord grant us His peace.
    R. And life everlasting.

Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----


--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
For the Dead


                         ----Dies Irae----
                         ----Day of Wrath----

One of the most famous melodies of the Gregorian Chant. Dies
Irae was formerly part of the Mass of the Dead. It was
traditionally ascribed to Thomas of Celano (d 1260), but now
is usually attributed to an unknown Franciscan of that period.
It is based upon Zep 1:14-16.

Dies irae, dies illa,
Solvet saeculum in favilla,
Teste David cum Sibylla.
Quantus tremor est futurus,
Quando iudex est venturus,
Cuncta stricte discussurus!
Tuba mirum spargens sonum
Per sepulcra regionum,
Coget omnes ante thronum.
Mors stupebit et natura,
Cum resurget creatura,
Iudicanti responsura.
Liber scriptus proferetur,
In quo totum continetur,
Unde mundus iudicetur.
Iudex ergo cum sedebit,
Quidquid latet apparebit:
Nil in ultum remanebit.
Quid sum miser tunc dicturus?
Quem patronum rogaturus?
Cum vix iustus sit securus.
Rex tremendae maiestatis,
Qui salvandos salvas gratis,
Salva me, fons pietatis.
Recordare Iesu pie,
Quod sum causa tuae viae:
Ne me perdas illa die.
Quarens me, sedisti lassus:
Redemisti crucem passus:
Tantus labor non sit casus.
Iuste iudex ultionis,
Donum fac remissionis,
Ante diem rationis.
Ingemisco, tamquam reus:
Culpa rubet vultus meus:
Supplicanti parce Deus.
Qui Mariam absolvisti,
Et latronem exaudisti,
Mihi quoque spem dedisti.
Preces meae non sunt dignae:
Sed tu bonus fac benigne,
Ne perenni cremer igne.
Inter oves locum praesta,
Et ab haedis me sequestra,
Statuens in parte dextra.
Confutatis maledictis,
Flammis acribus addictis.
Voca me cum benedictis.
Oro supplex et acclinis,
Cor contritum quasi cinis:
Gere curam mei finis.
Lacrimosa dies illa,
Qua resurget ex favilla.
Judicandus homo reus:
Huic ergo parce Deus.
Pie Iesu Domine,
Dona eis requiem. Amen.
  ---------------------


That day of wrath, that dreadful day,
Shall heaven and earth in ashes lay,
As David and the Sybil say.
What horror must invade the mind
When the approaching Judge shall find
And sift the deeds of all mankind!
The mighty trumpet's wondrous tone
Shall rend each tomb's sepulchral stone
And summon all before the Throne.
Now death and nature with surprise
Behold the trembling sinners rise
To meet the Judge's searching eyes.
Then shall with universal dread
The Book of Consciences be read
To judge the lives of all the dead.
For now before the Judge severe
All hidden things must plain appear;
No crime can pass unpunished here.
O what shall I, so guilty plead?
And who for me will intercede?
When even Saints shall comfort need?
O King of dreadful majesty!
Grace and mercy You grant free;
As Fount of Kindness, save me!
Recall, dear Jesus, for my sake
You did our suffering nature take
Then do not now my soul forsake!
In weariness You sought for me,
And suffering upon the tree!
Let not in vain such labor be.
O Judge of justice, hear, I pray,
For pity take my sins away
Before the dreadful reckoning day.
You gracious face, O Lord, I seek;
Deep shame and grief are on my cheek;
In sighs and tears my sorrows speak.
You Who did Mary's guilt unbind,
And mercy for the robber find,
Have filled with hope my anxious mind.
How worthless are my prayers I know,
Yet, Lord forbid that I should go
Into the fires of endless woe.
Divorced from the accursed band,
O make me with Your sheep to stand,
As child of grace, at Your right Hand.
When the doomed can no more flee
>From the fires of misery
With the chosen call me.
Before You, humbles, Lord, I lie,
My heart like ashes, crushed and dry,
Assist me when I die.
Full of tears and full of dread
Is that day that wakes the dead,
Calling all, with solemn blast
To be judged for all their past.
Lord, have mercy, Jesus blest,
Grant them all Your Light and Rest. Amen.
            --------------------------------------------------
----

--------------------------------------------------------------
----------
Biographies
--------------------------------------------------------------
----------

Saint Ambrose (340-397)

Saint Ambrose  was one of the four great Latin Fathers and
Doctors of the Western Church. He was appointed Bishop of
Milan in 374. He wrote about Scripture, the priesthood, the
faith, and hymnology.


St. Anselm (1033-1109)

St. Anslem was born at Aosta in Piedmont, Italy in 1033 and
became a Benedictine monk at the monestary of Bec in France in
1060. He was elected prior in 1063 and became Abbot in 1078.
While at Bec he wrote Monologium (1077) and Proslogium. In
1093 he was elected Archbisop of Canterbury. He fought
vigourously for the freedom of the Church and was exiled twice
as a result of this. He was the founder of Scholasticism and
the recogized originator of the ontological argument for the
existance of God and the satisfaction theory of the atonement
or redemption. Fest April 21.


St. Bernardine (1380-1444)

St. Bernardine was born September 8, 1380 of the noble family
Albizzesci in the town of Massa Marittima near Siena. He
became a Franciscan monk Sept. 8, 1402 and was then ordained
Sept. 8, 1404. He was considered the foremost Italian
missioner of the 15th century and spread far and wide the
devotion to the Holy Name of Jesus. He was also responsible
for the revival of discipline amongst the Franciscans, serving
as vicar general of the order from 1438 to 1442. He died
Ascension eve, May 20, 1444. He was canonized in 1450 and his
feast day is May 20.


St. Bonaventure (1218-1274)

St. Bonaventure was born in Tuscany and entered the Franciscan
order. He was a close friend of St. Thomas Aquinas. He is
regarded as the greatest exponent of Mystical Theology in the
Middle Ages and is known as the Seraphic Doctor.


St. Ephrem the Syrian (306-373)

St. Ephrem was born in Nisibis, Mesopotamia and headed the
catechetical school there. After the Persians captured
Nisibis, he went to Edessa were he became a monk and a deacon.
It was in Edessa that he wrote most of his works. He wrote
extensively on Scripture and composed many hymns. These hymns
were composed in Syriac, the local tongue, so his people would
understand them, learn from them, and thereby be kept free
from Arainism. He is especially noted for his Marian Hymns
which are an important source of Catholic Dogma. He also
carried out many works of mercy and was responsible for
organizing relief efforts during the great famine in
Mesopotamia which broke out a few years before his death. Pope
Benedict XV officially declared him a Doctor of the Church in
1920. His feast day is June 9.


Herman Contractus (Herman the Cripple)

He was from the noble family of Verigen and a Benedictine monk
at the monastery of Reichenau.


St. Joseph Calasanctius (1556-1648)

St. Joseph Calasanctius was born in Peralta in Aragon. He was
ordained a priest in 1583 and was engaged in pastoral work
until he had a vision that directed him to go to Rome. He went
to Rome in 1592 and joined the Confraternity of Christian
Doctrine which was concerned with the free education of
neglected children. As time went on, he gradually organized
the Confraternity into a religious order know as Scolopi (from
Le Scuole Pie (Religious Schools)) or Piarists. St. Joseph
Calasanctius was canonized in 1767 and his feast day is August
25.


St. Sophronius (c. 560-638)

St. Sophronius was an accomplished writer of distinction and
patriarch of Jerusalem when it fell to the Saracens in 637 AD.
St. Sophronius was born a Syrian in Damascus around 560 AD. In
580 AD he became an ascetic in Egypt and thereupon entered the
monastery of St. Theodosius in Jerusalem. He vigorously
defended orthodox theology against Monothelitism (that Christ
only had a divine will). In 634 AD, he became the patriarch of
Jerusalem. In 637 when Jerusalem fell to the Saracens forces
of 'Umar I', St. Sophronius was able to negotiate a treaty
with them to preserve the religious liberty of the Christians
in Jerusalem. St. Sophronius died March 11, 638 in Jerusalem.


St. Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274)

Attributed to St. Thomas Aquinas One of the five beautiful
hymns he composed in honor of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament.
In addition to Adoro Te Devote, St. Thomas wrote Lauda Sion,
Pange Lingua, Sacris Sollemins and Verbum Supernum at the
specific request of Pope Urban IV (1261-1264) for the then new
Feast of Corpus Christi in 1264. It is found in the Roman
Missal as a prayer of thanksgiving after Mass. A partial
indulgence is granted to the faithful who devoutly recite this
hymn.


St. Vincent Pallotti (1798-1850)

He was born in Rome of a noble family and ordained a secular
priest in 1820. He eventually dedicated himself to pastoral
work in Rome and labored selflessly for others. He founded the
Pallotines, otherwise known as the Society of Catholic Action.
In 1836 he started the special observance of the Octave of
Epiphany for the reunion of the Oriental Church with Rome. He
was canonized in 1963 and his feast day is January 23.

From:	MX%"dennis@delphi.dseg.ti.com" 28-JUN-1994 11:19:53.41
To:	MX%"cms@dragon.com"
CC:	
Subj:	Latin rosary

Return-Path: <dennis@delphi.dseg.ti.com>
Received: from lobby2b.ti.com by DRAGON.COM (MX V4.1 VAX) with SMTP; Tue, 28
          Jun 1994 11:19:39 EDT
Received: from lesol1.dseg.ti.com by lobby2b.ti.com with ESMTP
          (8.6.8.1/LAI-3.2) id KAA26340; Tue, 28 Jun 1994 10:13:37 -0500
Received: from delphi (delphi.dseg.ti.com [128.247.221.176]) by
          lesol1.dseg.ti.com (8.6.9/8.6.6) with SMTP id KAA14801 for
          <cms@dragon.com>; Tue, 28 Jun 1994 10:15:25 -0500
Received: from bacchus.dseg.ti.com by delphi (4.1/SMI-4.1) id AA05936; Tue, 28
          Jun 94 10:15:24 CDT
Date: Tue, 28 Jun 94 10:15:24 CDT
From: dennis@delphi.dseg.ti.com (dennis womack)
Message-ID: <9406281515.AA05936@delphi>
To: cms@dragon.com
Subject: Latin rosary

Cindy,

Here's an old post I saved

... Dennis

===========================



From catholic@uunet.uu.net Wed Jul 14 08:19:07 1993
To: Catholic-Doctrine-Mailing-List@uunet.UU.NET
Date: Wed Jul 14 08:15 EDT 1993
Reply-To: catholic@sarto.gaithersburg.md.us (Catholic Mailing List)
Subject: (CML) Rosary Prayers in Latin
From: jhpb@sarto.gaithersburg.md.us
Content-Length: 1519
X-Lines: 40
Status: RO

From: jhpb@sarto.gaithersburg.md.us

There may be some slight mistakes in the Fatima Prayer.  I will let
you know if I ever find my paper copy of it.

CREED

Credo in Deum, Patrem omnipotentem Creatorum coeli et terrae.  Et in
Jesum Christum, Filium ejus unicum, Dominum nostrum: qui conceptus est
de Spiritu sancto, natus ex Maria Virgine, passus sub Pontio Pilato,
crucifixus, mortuus, et sepultus: descendit ad inferos: terie die
resurrexit a mortuis ascendit ad caelos sedet ad dexteram Dei Patris
omnipotentis: inde venturus est judicare vivos et mortuos.  Credo in
Spiritum sanctum sanctam Ecclesiam Catholiciam, sanctorum communionem,
remissionem peccatorum, carnis resurrectionem, et vitam aeternam.
Amen.

OUR FATHER

Pater noster, qui es in caelis, sanctificetur nomen tuum: adveniat
regnum tuum; fiat voluntas tua sicut in caelo, et in terra.  Panem
nostrum quotidianum da nobis hodie, et dimitte nobis debita nostra,
sicut et nos dimittimus debitoribus nostris.  Et ne nos inducas in
tentationem.  Sed libera nos a malo.  Amen.

HAIL MARY

Ave Maria, gratia plena, Dominus tecum.  Benedicta tu in mulieribus,
et benedictus fructus ventris tui Jesus.  Sancta Maria, mater Dei,
ora pro nobis peccatoribus, nunc et in hora mortis nostrae.  Amen.

GLORY BE

Gloria Patri et Filio et Spiritui Sancto.  Sicut erat in principio, et
nunc, et semper, et in saecula saeculorum.  Amen.

FATIMA PRAYER

Nostris, O Jesu, debitis indulge, erue nos ab ignibus Inferni.
Caelique portas universis pande, miseris praesertim.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
dennis.womack@dseg.ti.com	  Gig'em	   Texas Instruments
MSGID WOMK		       214-480-2651	   Dallas, TX
   ... Si Vis Pacem Para Bellum
            (if you want peace, prepare for war)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
